1. And it came to pass, when the king dwelt in his house, and the LORD had given him rest from all his enemies round about,
2. that the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains.
3. And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thy heart; for the LORD is with thee.
4. And it came to pass the same night, that the word of the LORD came unto Nathan, saying,
5. Go and tell my servant David, Thus says the LORD, Shalt thou build me a house for me to dwell in?
6. for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle.
7. In all places in which I have walked with all the children of Israel, spake I a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people Israel, saying, Why have ye not built me a house of cedar?
8. Now therefore thus shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus says the LORD of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, that thou shouldest be prince over my people, over Israel;
9. and I have been with thee wherever thou wentest, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee; and I will make thee a great name, like unto the name of the great ones that are in the earth.
10. And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as at the first,
11. and [as] from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will cause thee to rest from all thine enemies. Moreover the LORD telleth thee that the LORD will make thee a house.
12. When thy days are fulfilled, and you shall sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, that shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom.
13. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever.
14. I will be his father, and he will be my son: if he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men;
15. but my lovingkindness shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee.
16. And thy house and thy kingdom will be made sure for ever before thee: thy throne will be established for ever.
17. According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David.
18. Then David the king went in, and sat before the LORD; and he said, Who am I, O Lord the LORD, and what is my house, that you have brought me thus far?
19. And this was yet a small thing in thine eyes, O Lord the LORD; but you have spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come; and this [too] after the manner of men, O Lord the LORD!
20. And what can David say more to you? for thou knowest thy servant, O Lord the LORD.
21. For thy word's sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou wrought all this greatness, to make thy servant know it.
22. Wherefore you are great, O the LORD God: for there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
23. And what one nation in the earth is like thy people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem unto himself for a people, and to make him a name, and to do great things for you, and terrible things for thy land, before thy people, whom thou redeemest to thee out of Egypt, [from] the nations and their gods?
24. And thou didst establish to thyself thy people Israel to be a people to you for ever; and thou, the LORD, becamest their God.
25. And now, O the LORD God, the word that you have spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, confirm thou it for ever, and do as you have spoken.
26. And let thy name be magnified for ever, saying, the LORD of hosts is God over Israel; and the house of thy servant David will be established before thee.
27. For thou, O the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, hast revealed to thy servant, saying, I will build thee a house: therefore has thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer to you. [
28. And now, O Lord the LORD, you are God, and thy words are truth, and you have promised this good thing unto thy servant:
29. now therefore let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee; for thou, O Lord the LORD, hast spoken it: and with thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed for ever.