1. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
2. Speak unto the children of Israel, and say to them, I am the LORD your God.
3. After the doings of the land of Egypt, in which ye dwelt, shall ye not do: and after the doings of the land of Canaan, whither I bring you, shall ye not do; neither shall ye walk in their statutes.
4. Mine ordinances shall ye do, and my statutes shall ye keep, to walk in it: I am the LORD your God.
5. Ye shall therefore keep my statutes, and mine ordinances; which if a man do, he shall live in them: I am the LORD.
6. None of you shall approach to any that are near of kin to him, to uncover [their] nakedness: I am the LORD.
7. The nakedness of thy father, even the nakedness of thy mother, shalt thou not uncover: she is thy mother; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
8. The nakedness of thy father's wife shalt thou not uncover: it is thy father's nakedness.
9. The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or the daughter of thy mother, whether born at home, or born abroad, even their nakedness you shall not uncover.
10. The nakedness of thy son's daughter, or of thy daughter's daughter, even their nakedness you shall not uncover: for theirs is thine own nakedness.
11. The nakedness of thy father's wife's daughter, begotten of thy father, she is thy sister, you shall not uncover her nakedness.
12. you shall not uncover the nakedness of thy father's sister: she is thy father's near kinswoman.
13. you shall not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister: for she is thy mother's near kinswoman.
14. you shall not uncover the nakedness of thy father's brother, you shall not approach to his wife: she is thine aunt.
15. you shall not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter-in-law: she is thy son's wife; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
16. you shall not uncover the nakedness of thy brother's wife: it is thy brother's nakedness.
17. you shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter; you shall not take her son's daughter, or her daughter's daughter, to uncover her nakedness; they are near kinswomen: it is wickedness.
18. And you shall not take a wife to her sister, to be a rival [to her], to uncover her nakedness, besides the other in her life-time.
19. And you shall not approach unto a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness.
20. And you shall not lie carnally with thy neighbor's wife, to defile thyself with her.
21. And you shall not give any of thy seed to make them pass through [the fire] to Molech; neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am the LORD.
22. you shall not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination.
23. And you shall not lie with any beast to defile thyself therewith; neither shall any woman stand before a beast, to lie down thereto: it is confusion.
24. Defile not ye yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the nations are defiled which I cast out from before you;
25. And the land is defiled: therefore I do visit the iniquity of it upon it, and the land vomiteth out her inhabitants.
26. Ye therefore shall keep my statutes and mine ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations; neither the home-born, nor the stranger that sojourneth among you;
27. (for all these abominations have the men of the land done, that were before you, and the land is defiled);
28. that the land vomit not you out also, when ye defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you.
29. For whosoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them will be cut off from among their people.
30. Therefore shall ye keep my charge, that ye practise not any of these abominable customs, which were practised before you, and that ye defile not yourselves in it: I am the LORD your God.