1. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
2. Command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually.
3. Without the veil of the testimony, in the tent of meeting, shall Aaron keep it in order from evening to morning before the LORD continually: it will be a statute for ever throughout your generations.
4. He shall keep in order the lamps upon the pure candlestick before the LORD continually.
5. And you shall take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes of it: two tenth parts [of an ephah] will be in one cake.
6. And you shall set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table before the LORD.
7. And you shall put pure frankincense upon each row, that it may be to the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
8. Every sabbath day he shall set it in order before the LORD continually; it is on the behalf of the children of Israel, an everlasting covenant.
9. And it will be for Aaron and his sons; and they shall eat it in a holy place: for it is most holy to him of the offerings of the LORD made by fire by a perpetual statute.
10. And the son of an Israelitish woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelitish woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp:
11. and the son of the Israelitish woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed; and they brought him unto Moses. And his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
12. And they put him in ward, that it might be declared to them at the mouth of the LORD.
13. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
14. Bring forth him that has cursed without the camp; and let all that heard him lay their hands upon his head, and let all the congregation stone him.
15. And you shall speak unto the children of Israel, saying, Whosoever curseth his God shall bear his sin.
16. And he that blasphemeth the name of the LORD, he shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall certainly stone him: as well the sojourner, as the home-born, when he blasphemeth the name [of the LORD], will be put to death.
17. And he that smiteth any man mortally shall surely be put to death.
18. And he that smiteth a beast mortally shall make it good, life for life.
19. And if a man cause a blemish in his neighbor; as he has done, so shall it be done to him:
20. breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he has caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be rendered to him.
21. And he that killeth a beast shall make it good: and he that killeth a man will be put to death.
22. Ye shall have one manner of law, as well for the sojourner, as for the home-born: for I am the LORD your God.
23. And Moses spake to the children of Israel; and they brought forth him that had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones. And the children of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses.