1. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
2. Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say to them, Ye will be holy; for I the LORD your God am holy.
3. Ye shall fear every man his mother, and his father; and ye shall keep my sabbaths: I am the LORD your God.
4. Turn ye not unto idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am the LORD your God.
5. And when ye offer a sacrifice of peace-offerings unto the LORD, ye shall offer it that ye may be accepted.
6. It will be eaten the same day ye offer it, and on the morrow: and if aught remain until the third day, it will be burnt with fire.
7. And if it be eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination; it shall not be accepted:
8. but every one that eateth it shall bear his iniquity, because he has profaned the holy thing of the LORD: and that soul will be cut off from his people.
9. And when ye reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleaning of thy harvest.
10. And you shall not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather the fallen fruit of thy vineyard; you shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am the LORD your God.
11. Ye shall not steal; neither shall ye deal falsely, nor lie one to another.
12. And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of thy God: I am the LORD.
13. you shall not oppress thy neighbor, nor rob him: the wages of a hired servant shall not abide with thee all night until the morning.
14. you shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before the blind; but you shall fear thy God: I am the LORD.
15. Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment: you shall not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty; but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbor.
16. you shall not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people: neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbor: I am the LORD.
17. you shall not hate thy brother in thy heart: you shall surely rebuke thy neighbor, and not bear sin because of him.
18. you shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people; but you shall love thy neighbor as thyself: I am the LORD.
19. Ye shall keep my statutes. you shall not let thy cattle gender with a diverse kind: you shall not sow thy field with two kinds of seed: neither shall there come upon thee a garment of two kinds of stuff mingled together.
20. And whosoever lieth carnally with a woman, that is a bondmaid, betrothed to a husband, and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given her; they will be punished; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free.
21. And he shall bring his trespass-offering unto the LORD, unto the door of the tent of meeting, even a ram for a trespass-offering.
22. And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass-offering before the LORD for his sin which he has sinned: and the sin which he has sinned will be forgiven him.
23. And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then ye shall count the fruit of it as their uncircumcision: three years shall they be as uncircumcised unto you; it shall not be eaten.
24. But in the fourth year all the fruit of it will be holy, for giving praise unto the LORD.
25. And in the fifth year shall ye eat of the fruit of it, that it may yield unto you the increase of it: I am the LORD your God.
26. Ye shall not eat anything with the blood: neither shall ye use enchantments, nor practise augury.
27. Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard.
28. Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you: I am the LORD.
29. Profane not thy daughter, to make her a harlot; lest the land fall to whoredom, and the land become full of wickedness.
30. Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am the LORD.
31. Turn ye not to them that have familiar spirits, nor unto the wizards; seek them not out, to be defiled by them: I am the LORD your God.
32. you shall rise up before the hoary head, and honor the face of the old man, and you shall fear thy God: I am the LORD.
33. And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not do him wrong.
34. The stranger that sojourneth with you will be unto you as the home-born among you, and you shall love him as thyself; for ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.
35. Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity.
36. Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall ye have: I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
37. And ye shall observe all my statutes, and all mine ordinances, and do them: I am the LORD.