1. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
2. If any one sin, and commit a trespass against the LORD, and deal falsely with his neighbor in a matter of deposit, or of bargain, or of robbery, or have oppressed his neighbor,
3. or have found that which was lost, and deal falsely in it, and swear to a lie; in any of all these things that a man doeth, sinning in it;
4. then it will be, if he has sinned, and is guilty, that he shall restore that which he took by robbery, or the thing which he has gotten by oppression, or the deposit which was committed to him, or the lost thing which he found,
5. or any thing about which he has sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in full, and shall add the fifth part more thereto: to him to whom it appertaineth shall he give it, in the day of his being found guilty.
6. And he shall bring his trespass-offering unto the LORD, a ram without blemish out of the flock, according to thy estimation, for a trespass-offering, unto the priest:
7. and the priest shall make atonement for him before the LORD; and he will be forgiven concerning whatsoever he doeth so as to be guilty thereby.
8. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
9. Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt-offering: the burnt-offering will be on the hearth upon the altar all night unto the morning; and the fire of the altar will be kept burning thereon.
10. And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen breeches shall he put upon his flesh; and he shall take up the ashes whereto the fire has consumed the burnt-offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.
11. And he shall put off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes without the camp unto a clean place.
12. And the fire upon the altar will be kept burning thereon, it shall not go out; and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning: and he shall lay the burnt-offering in order upon it, and shall burn thereon the fat of the peace-offerings.
13. Fire will be kept burning upon the altar continually; it shall not go out.
14. And this is the law of the meal-offering: the sons of Aaron shall offer it before the LORD, before the altar.
15. And he shall take up therefrom his handful, of the fine flour of the meal-offering, and of the oil of it, and all the frankincense which is upon the meal-offering, and shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor, as the memorial of it, unto the LORD.
16. And that which is left of it shall Aaron and his sons eat: it will be eaten without leaven in a holy place; in the court of the tent of meeting they shall eat it.
17. It shall not be baken with leaven. I have given it as their portion of my offerings made by fire; it is most holy, as the sin-offering, and as the trespass-offering.
18. Every male among the children of Aaron shall eat of it, as [his] portion for ever throughout your generations, from the offerings of the LORD made by fire: whosoever toucheth them will be holy.
19. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
20. This is the oblation of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer unto the LORD in the day when he is anointed: the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering perpetually, half of it in the morning, and half of it in the evening.
21. On a baking-pan it will be made with oil; when it is soaked, you shall bring it in: in baken pieces shalt thou offer the meal-offering for a sweet savor unto the LORD.
22. And the anointed priest that will be in his stead from among his sons shall offer it: by a statute for ever it will be wholly burnt unto the LORD.
23. And every meal-offering of the priest will be wholly burnt: it shall not be eaten.
24. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
25. Speak unto Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin-offering: in the place where the burnt-offering is killed shall the sin-offering be killed before the LORD: it is most holy.
26. The priest that offereth it for sin shall eat it: in a holy place shall it be eaten, in the court of the tent of meeting.
27. Whatsoever shall touch the flesh of it will be holy; and when there is sprinkled of the blood of it upon any garment, you shall wash that whereon it was sprinkled in a holy place.
28. But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled will be broken; and if it be boiled in a brazen vessel, it will be scoured, and rinsed in water.
29. Every male among the priests shall eat of it: it is most holy.
30. And no sin-offering, of which any of the blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the holy place, will be eaten: it will be burnt with fire.