1. And when any one offereth an oblation of a meal-offering unto the LORD, his oblation will be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon:
2. and he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests; and he shall take thereout his handful of the fine flour of it, and of the oil of it, with all the frankincense of it. And the priest shall burn [it as] the memorial of it upon the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD:
3. and that which is left of the meal-offering will be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.
4. And when thou offerest an oblation of a meal-offering baken in the oven, it will be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
5. And if thy oblation be a meal-offering of the baking-pan, it will be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.
6. you shall part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is a meal-offering.
7. And if thy oblation be a meal-offering of the frying-pan, it will be made of fine flour with oil.
8. And you shall bring the meal-offering that is made of these things unto the LORD: and it will be presented unto the priest, and he shall bring it unto the altar.
9. And the priest shall take up from the meal-offering the memorial of it, and shall burn it upon the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
10. And that which is left of the meal-offering will be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.
11. No meal-offering, which ye shall offer unto the LORD, will be made with leaven; for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, as an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
12. As an oblation of first-[ fruits] ye shall offer them unto the LORD: but they shall not come up for a sweet savor on the altar.
13. And every oblation of thy meal-offering shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meal-offering: with all thine oblations you shall offer salt.
14. And if thou offer a meal-offering of first-fruits unto the LORD, you shall offer for the meal-offering of thy first-fruits grain in the ear parched with fire, bruised grain of the fresh ear.
15. And you shall put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is a meal-offering.
16. And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the bruised grain of it, and part of the oil of it, with all the frankincense of it: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.