1. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
2. Command the children of Israel, and say to them, My oblation, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a sweet savor unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season.
3. And you shall say to them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto the LORD: he-lambs a year old without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt-offering.
4. The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even;
5. and the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil.
6. It is a continual burnt-offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
7. And the drink-offering of it will be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou pour out a drink-offering of strong drink unto the LORD.
8. And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meal-offering of the morning, and as the drink-offering of it, you shall offer it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
9. And on the sabbath day two he-lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts [of an ephah] of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, and the drink-offering of it:
10. this is the burnt-offering of every sabbath, besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering of it.
11. And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt-offering unto the LORD: two young bullocks, and one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without blemish;
12. and three tenth parts [of an ephah] of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for each bullock; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for the one ram;
13. and a tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal-offering unto every lamb; for a burnt-offering of a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
14. And their drink-offerings will be half a hin of wine for a bullock, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb: this is the burnt-offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
15. And one he-goat for a sin-offering unto the LORD; it will be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering of it.
16. And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is the LORD's passover.
17. And on the fifteenth day of this month will be a feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
18. In the first day will be a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work;
19. but ye shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt-offering unto the LORD: two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven he-lambs a year old; they will be unto you without blemish;
20. and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil: three tenth parts shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth parts for the ram;
21. a tenth part shalt thou offer for every lamb of the seven lambs;
22. and one he-goat for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you.
23. Ye shall offer these besides the burnt-offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt-offering.
24. After this manner ye shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD: it will be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering of it.
25. And on the seventh day ye shall have a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work.
26. Also in the day of the first-fruits, when ye offer a new meal-offering unto the LORD in your [feast of] weeks, ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work;
27. but ye shall offer a burnt-offering for a sweet savor unto the LORD: two young bullocks, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old;
28. and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for each bullock, two tenth parts for the one ram,
29. a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
30. one he-goat, to make atonement for you.
31. Besides the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering of it, ye shall offer them (they will be unto you without blemish), and their drink-offerings.