1. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
2. Speak unto the children of Israel, and say to them, When ye are come into the land of your habitations, which I give unto you,
3. and will make an offering by fire unto the LORD, a burnt-offering, or a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or as a freewill-offering, or in your set feasts, to make a sweet savor unto the LORD, of the herd, or of the flock;
4. then shall he that offereth his oblation offer unto the LORD a meal-offering of a tenth part [of an ephah] of fine flour mingled with the fourth part of a hin of oil:
5. and wine for the drink-offering, the fourth part of a hin, shalt thou prepare with the burnt-offering, or for the sacrifice, for each lamb.
6. Or for a ram, you shall prepare for a meal-offering two tenth parts [of an ephah] of fine flour mingled with the third part of a hin of oil:
7. and for the drink-offering you shall offer the third part of a hin of wine, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
8. And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt-offering, or for a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or for peace-offerings unto the LORD;
9. then shall he offer with the bullock a meal-offering of three tenth parts [of an ephah] of fine flour mingled with half a hin of oil:
10. and you shall offer for the drink-offering half a hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
11. Thus shall it be done for each bullock, or for each ram, or for each of the he-lambs, or of the kids.
12. According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to every one according to their number.
13. All that are home-born shall do these things after this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
14. And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever may be among you throughout your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do.
15. For the assembly, there will be one statute for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth [with you], a statute for ever throughout your generations: as ye are, so shall the sojourner be before the LORD.
16. One law and one ordinance will be for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you.
17. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
18. Speak unto the children of Israel, and say to them, When ye come into the land whither I bring you,
19. then it will be, that, when ye eat of the bread of the land, ye shall offer up a heave-offering unto the LORD.
20. Of the first of your dough ye shall offer up a cake for a heave-offering: as the heave-offering of the threshing-floor, so shall ye heave it.
21. Of the first of your dough ye shall give unto the LORD a heave-offering throughout your generations.
22. And when ye shall err, and not observe all these commandments, which the LORD has spoken unto Moses,
23. even all that the LORD has commanded you by Moses, from the day that the LORD gave commandment, and onward throughout your generations;
24. then it will be, if it be done unwittingly, without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bullock for a burnt-offering, for a sweet savor unto the LORD, with the meal-offering of it, and the drink-offering of it, according to the ordinance, and one he-goat for a sin-offering.
25. And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and they will be forgiven; for it was an error, and they have brought their oblation, an offering made by fire unto the LORD, and their sin-offering before the LORD, for their error:
26. and all the congregation of the children of Israel will be forgiven, and the stranger that sojourneth among them; for in respect of all the people it was done unwittingly.
27. And if one person sin unwittingly, then he shall offer a she-goat a year old for a sin-offering.
28. And the priest shall make atonement for the soul that erreth, when he sinneth unwittingly, before the LORD, to make atonement for him; and he will be forgiven.
29. Ye shall have one law for him that doeth aught unwittingly, for him that is home-born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them.
30. But the soul that doeth aught with a high hand, whether he be home-born or a sojourner, the same blasphemeth the LORD; and that soul will be cut off from among his people.
31. Because he has despised the word of the LORD, and has broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity will be upon him.
32. And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks upon the sabbath day.
33. And they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Moses and Aaron, and unto all the congregation.
34. And they put him in ward, because it had not been declared what should be done to him.
35. And the LORD said unto Moses, The man shall surely be put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones without the camp.
36. And all the congregation brought him without the camp, and stoned him to death with stones; as the LORD commanded Moses.
37. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
38. Speak unto the children of Israel, and bid them that they make them fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put upon the fringe of each border a cord of blue:
39. and it will be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and remember all the commandments of the LORD, and do them; and that ye follow not after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to play the harlot;
40. that ye may remember and do all my commandments, and be holy unto your God.
41. I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the LORD your God.