1. And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work: it is a day of blowing of trumpets unto you.
2. And ye shall offer a burnt-offering for a sweet savor unto the LORD: one young bullock, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without blemish;
3. and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for the bullock, two tenth parts for the ram,
4. and one tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
5. and one he-goat for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you;
6. besides the burnt-offering of the new moon, and the meal-offering of it, and the continual burnt-offering and the meal-offering of it, and their drink-offerings, according unto their ordinance, for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
7. And on the tenth day of this seventh month ye shall have a holy convocation; and ye shall afflict your souls: ye shall do no manner of work;
8. but ye shall offer a burnt-offering unto the LORD for a sweet savor: one young bullock, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old; they will be unto you without blemish;
9. and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for the bullock, two tenth parts for the one ram,
10. a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs:
11. one he-goat for a sin-offering; besides the sin-offering of atonement, and the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering of it, and their drink-offerings.
12. And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work, and ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days:
13. and ye shall offer a burnt-offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD; thirteen young bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old; they will be without blemish;
14. and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for every bullock of the thirteen bullocks, two tenth parts for each ram of the two rams,
15. and a tenth part for every lamb of the fourteen lambs;
16. and one he-goat for a sin-offering, besides the continual burnt-offering, the meal-offering of it, and the drink-offering of it.
17. And on the second day [ye shall offer] twelve young bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish;
18. and their meal-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
19. and one he-goat for a sin-offering; besides the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering of it, and their drink-offerings.
20. And on the third day eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish;
21. and their meal-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
22. and one he-goat for a sin-offering; besides the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering of it, and the drink-offering of it.
23. And on the fourth day ten bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish;
24. their meal-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
25. and one he-goat for a sin-offering; besides the continual burnt-offering, the meal-offering of it, and the drink-offering of it.
26. And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish;
27. and their meal-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
28. and one he-goat for a sin-offering, besides the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering of it, and the drink-offering of it.
29. And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish;
30. and their meal-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
31. and one he-goat for a sin-offering; besides the continual burnt-offering, the meal-offering of it, and the drink-offerings of it.
32. And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, fourteen he-lambs a year old without blemish;
33. and their meal-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance;
34. and one he-goat for a sin-offering; besides the continual burnt-offering, the meal-offering of it, and the drink-offering of it.
35. On the eighth day ye shall have a solemn assembly: ye shall do no servile work;
36. but ye shall offer a burnt-offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD: one bullock, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without blemish;
37. their meal-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullock, for the ram, and for the lambs, will be according to their number, after the ordinance:
38. and one he-goat for a sin-offering, besides the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering of it, and the drink-offering of it.
39. These ye shall offer unto the LORD in your set feasts, besides your vows, and your freewill-offerings, for your burnt-offerings, and for your meal-offerings, and for your drink-offerings, and for your peace-offerings.
40. And Moses told the children of Israel according to all that the LORD commanded Moses.