1. Thus the Lord the LORD showed me: and, behold, he formed locusts in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth; and, lo, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings.
2. And it came to pass that, when they made an end of eating the grass of the land, then I said, O Lord the LORD, forgive, I beseech thee: how shall Jacob stand? for he is small.
3. the LORD repented concerning this: It shall not be, says the LORD.
4. Thus the Lord the LORD showed me: and, behold, the Lord the LORD called to contend by fire; and it devoured the great deep, and would have eaten up the land.
5. Then said I, O Lord the LORD, cease, I beseech thee: how shall Jacob stand? for he is small.
6. the LORD repented concerning this: this also shall not be, says the Lord the LORD.
7. Thus he showed me: and, behold, the Lord stood beside a wall made by a plumb-line, with a plumb-line in his hand.
8. And the LORD said unto me, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A plumb-line. Then said the Lord, Behold, I will set a plumb-line in the midst of my people Israel; I will not again pass by them any more;
9. and the high places of Isaac will be desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel will be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.
10. Then Amaziah the priest of Beth-el sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos has conspired against thee in the midst of the house of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words.
11. For thus Amos says, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.
12. Also Amaziah said unto Amos, O thou seer, go, flee thou away into the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there:
13. but prophesy not again any more at Beth-el; for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is a royal house.
14. Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet's son; but I was a herdsman, and a dresser of sycomore-trees:
15. and the LORD took me from following the flock, and the LORD said unto me, Go, prophesy unto my people Israel.
16. Now therefore hear thou the word of the LORD: Thou sayest, Prophesy not against Israel, and drop not [thy word] against the house of Isaac;
17. therefore thus says the LORD: Thy wife will be a harlot in the city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy land will be divided by line; and thou thyself shalt die in a land that is unclean, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.