1. Hear this word that the LORD has spoken against you, O children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying,
2. You only have I known of all the families of the earth: therefore I will visit upon you all your iniquities.
3. Shall two walk together, except they have agreed?
4. Will a lion roar in the forest, when he has no prey? will a young lion cry out of his den, if he have taken nothing?
5. Can a bird fall in a snare upon the earth, where no gin is [set] for him? shall a snare spring up from the ground, and have taken nothing at all?
6. Shall the trumpet be blown in a city, and the people not be afraid? shall evil befall a city, and the LORD has not done it?
7. Surely the Lord the LORD will do nothing, except he reveal his secret unto his servants the prophets.
8. The lion has roared; who will not fear? The Lord the LORD has spoken; who can but prophesy?
9. Publish ye in the palaces at Ashdod, and in the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, Assemble yourselves upon the mountains of Samaria, and behold what great tumults are in it, and what oppressions in the midst of it.
10. For they know not to do right, says the LORD, who store up violence and robbery in their palaces.
11. Therefore thus says the Lord the LORD: An adversary [there will be], even round about the land; and he shall bring down thy strength from thee, and thy palaces will be plundered.
12. Thus says the LORD: As the shepherd rescueth out of the mouth of the lion two legs, or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel be rescued that sit in Samaria in the corner of a couch, and on the silken cushions of a bed.
13. Hear ye, and testify against the house of Jacob, says the Lord the LORD, the God of hosts.
14. For in the day that I shall visit the transgressions of Israel upon him, I will also visit the altars of Beth-el; and the horns of the altar will be cut off, and fall to the ground.
15. And I will smite the winter-house with the summer-house; and the houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall have an end, says the LORD.