1. Hear, O Israel: you are to pass over the Jordan this day, to go in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than thyself, cities great and fortified up to heaven,
2. a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom thou knowest, and of whom you have heard say, Who can stand before the sons of Anak?
3. Know therefore this day, that the LORD thy God is he who goes over before thee as a devouring fire; he will destroy them, and he will bring them down before thee: so shalt thou drive them out, and make them to perish quickly, as the LORD has spoken to you.
4. Speak not thou in thy heart, after that the LORD thy God has thrust them out from before thee, saying, For my righteousness the LORD has brought me in to possess this land; whereas for the wickedness of these nations the LORD does drive them out from before thee.
5. Not for thy righteousness, or for the uprightness of thy heart, dost thou go in to possess their land; but for the wickedness of these nations the LORD thy God does drive them out from before thee, and that he may establish the word which the LORD sware unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
6. Know therefore, that the LORD thy God gives thee not this good land to possess it for thy righteousness; for you are a stiffnecked people.
7. Remember, forget thou not, how thou provokedst the LORD thy God to wrath in the wilderness: from the day that thou wentest forth out of the land of Egypt, until ye came unto this place, ye have been rebellious against the LORD.
8. Also in Horeb ye provoked the LORD to wrath, and the LORD was angry with you to destroy you.
9. When I was gone up into the mount to receive the tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant which the LORD made with you, then I abode in the mount forty days and forty nights; I did neither eat bread nor drink water.
10. And the LORD delivered unto me the two tables of stone written with the finger of God; and on them [was written] according to all the words, which the LORD spake with you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly.
11. And it came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights, that the LORD gave me the two tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant.
12. And the LORD said unto me, Arise, get thee down quickly from hence; for thy people that you have brought forth out of Egypt have corrupted themselves; they are quickly turned aside out of the way which I commanded them; they have made them a molten image.
13. Furthermore the LORD spake unto me, saying, I have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiffnecked people:
14. let me alone, that I may destroy them, and blot out their name from under heaven; and I will make of thee a nation mightier and greater than they.
15. So I turned and came down from the mount, and the mount was burning with fire: and the two tables of the covenant were in my two hands.
16. And I looked, and, behold, ye had sinned against the LORD your God; ye had made you a molten calf: ye had turned aside quickly out of the way which the LORD had commanded you.
17. And I took hold of the two tables, and cast them out of my two hands, and brake them before your eyes.
18. And I fell down before the LORD, as at the first, forty days and forty nights; I did neither eat bread nor drink water; because of all your sin which ye sinned, in doing that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.
19. For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure, wherewith the LORD was wroth against you to destroy you. But the LORD hearkened unto me that time also.
20. And the LORD was very angry with Aaron to destroy him: and I prayed for Aaron also at the same time.
21. And I took your sin, the calf which ye had made, and burnt it with fire, and stamped it, grinding it very small, until it was as fine as dust: and I cast the dust of it into the brook that descended out of the mount.
22. And at Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibroth-hattaavah, ye provoked the LORD to wrath.
23. And when the LORD sent you from Kadesh-barnea, saying, Go up and possess the land which I have given you; then ye rebelled against the commandment of the LORD your God, and ye believed him not, nor hearkened to his voice.
24. Ye have been rebellious against the LORD from the day that I knew you.
25. So I fell down before the LORD the forty days and forty nights that I fell down, because the LORD had said he would destroy you.
26. And I prayed unto the LORD, and said, O Lord the LORD, destroy not thy people and thine inheritance, that you have redeemed through thy greatness, that you have brought forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
27. Remember thy servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; look not unto the stubbornness of this people, nor to their wickedness, nor to their sin,
28. lest the land whence thou broughtest us out say, Because the LORD was not able to bring them into the land which he promised to them, and because he hated them, he has brought them out to slay them in the wilderness.
29. Yet they are thy people and thine inheritance, which thou broughtest out by thy great power and by thine outstretched arm.