1. The priests the Levites, [even] all the tribe of Levi, shall have no portion nor inheritance with Israel: they shall eat the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and his inheritance.
2. And they shall have no inheritance among their brethren: the LORD is their inheritance, as he has spoken to them.
3. And this will be the priests' due from the people, from them that offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep, that they shall give unto the priest the shoulder, and the two cheeks, and the maw.
4. The first-fruits of thy grain, of thy new wine, and of thine oil, and the first of the fleece of thy sheep, shalt thou give him.
5. For the LORD thy God has chosen him out of all thy tribes, to stand to minister in the name of the LORD, him and his sons for ever.
6. And if a Levite come from any of thy gates out of all Israel, where he sojourneth, and come with all the desire of his soul unto the place which the LORD shall choose;
7. then he shall minister in the name of the LORD his God, as all his brethren the Levites do, who stand there before the LORD.
8. They shall have like portions to eat, besides that which comes of the sale of his patrimony.
9. When you are come into the land which the LORD thy God gives thee, you shall not learn to do after the abominations of those nations.
10. There shall not be found with thee any one that makes his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, one that useth divination, one that practiseth augury, or an enchanter, or a sorcerer,
11. or a charmer, or a consulter with a familiar spirit, or a wizard, or a necromancer.
12. For whosoever doeth these things is an abomination unto the LORD: and because of these abominations the LORD thy God does drive them out from before thee.
13. you shall be perfect with the LORD thy God.
14. For these nations, that you shall dispossess, hearken to them that practise augury, and unto diviners; but as for thee, the LORD thy God has not suffered thee so to do.
15. the LORD thy God will raise up to you a prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; to him ye shall hearken;
16. according to all that thou desiredst of the LORD thy God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God, neither let me see this great fire any more, that I die not.
17. And the LORD said unto me, They have well said that which they have spoken.
18. I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren, like to you; and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I shall command him.
19. And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not hearken unto my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him.
20. But the prophet, that shall speak a word presumptuously in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die.
21. And if thou say in thy heart, How shall we know the word which the LORD has not spoken?
22. when a prophet speaketh in the name of the LORD, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the LORD has not spoken: the prophet has spoken it presumptuously, you shall not be afraid of him.