1. And Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, Keep all the commandment which I command you this day.
2. And it will be on the day when ye shall pass over the Jordan unto the land which the LORD thy God gives thee, that you shall set thee up great stones, and plaster them with plaster:
3. and you shall write upon them all the words of this law, when you are passed over; that thou mayest go in unto the land which the LORD thy God gives thee, a land flowing with milk and honey, as the LORD, the God of thy fathers, has promised thee.
4. And it will be, when ye are passed over the Jordan, that ye shall set up these stones, which I command you this day, in mount Ebal, and you shall plaster them with plaster.
5. And there shalt thou build an altar unto the LORD thy God, an altar of stones: you shall lift up no iron [tool] upon them.
6. you shall build the altar of the LORD thy God of unhewn stones; and you shall offer burnt-offerings thereon unto the LORD thy God:
7. and you shall sacrifice peace-offerings, and shalt eat there; and you shall rejoice before the LORD thy God.
8. And you shall write upon the stones all the words of this law very plainly.
9. And Moses and the priests the Levites spake unto all Israel, saying, Keep silence, and hearken, O Israel: this day you are become the people of the LORD thy God.
10. you shall therefore obey the voice of the LORD thy God, and do his commandments and his statutes, which I command thee this day.
11. And Moses charged the people the same day, saying,
12. These shall stand upon mount Gerizim to bless the people, when ye are passed over the Jordan: Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Joseph, and Benjamin.
13. And these shall stand upon mount Ebal for the curse: Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
14. And the Levites shall answer, and say unto all the men of Israel with a loud voice,
15. Cursed be the man that makes a graven or molten image, an abomination unto the LORD, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and setteth it up in secret. And all the people shall answer and say, Amen.
16. Cursed be he that setteth light by his father or his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen.
17. Cursed be he that removeth his neighbor's landmark. And all the people shall say, Amen.
18. Cursed be he that makes the blind to wander out of the way. And all the people shall say, Amen.
19. Cursed be he that wresteth the justice [due] to the sojourner, fatherless, and widow. And all the people shall say, Amen.
20. Cursed be he that lieth with his father's wife, because he has uncovered his father's skirt. And all the people shall say, Amen.
21. Cursed be he that lieth with any manner of beast. And all the people shall say, Amen.
22. Cursed be he that lieth with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen.
23. Cursed be he that lieth with his mother-in-law. And all the people shall say, Amen.
24. Cursed be he that smiteth his neighbor in secret. And all the people shall say, Amen.
25. Cursed be he that takes a bribe to slay an innocent person. And all the people shall say, Amen.
26. Cursed be he that confirmeth not the words of this law to do them. And all the people shall say, Amen.