1. And Moses called unto all Israel, and said to them, Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the ordinances which I speak in your ears this day, that ye may learn them, and observe to do them.
2. the LORD our God made a covenant with us in Horeb.
3. the LORD made not this covenant with our fathers, but with us, even us, who are all of us here alive this day.
4. the LORD spake with you face to face in the mount out of the midst of the fire,
5. (I stood between the LORD and you at that time, to show you the word of the LORD: for ye were afraid because of the fire, and went not up into the mount;) saying,
6. I am the LORD thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
7. you shall have no other gods before me.
8. you shall not make to you a graven image, [nor] any likeness [of anything] that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:
9. you shall not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them; for I, the LORD, thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the third and upon the fourth generation of them that hate me;
10. and showing lovingkindness unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments.
11. you shall not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain: for the LORD will not hold him guiltless that takes his name in vain.
12. Observe the sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the LORD thy God commanded thee.
13. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work;
14. but the seventh day is a sabbath unto the LORD thy God: [in it] you shall not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thine ox, nor thine ass, nor any of thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates; that thy man-servant and thy maid-servant may rest as well as thou.
15. And you shall remember that thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt, and the LORD thy God brought thee out thence by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm: therefore the LORD thy God commanded thee to keep the sabbath day.
16. Honor thy father and thy mother, as the LORD thy God commanded thee; that thy days may be long, and that it may go well with thee, in the land which the LORD thy God gives thee.
17. you shall not kill.
18. Neither shalt thou commit adultery.
19. Neither shalt thou steal.
20. Neither shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbor.
21. Neither shalt thou covet thy neighbor's wife; neither shalt thou desire thy neighbor's house, his field, or his man-servant, or his maid-servant, his ox, or his ass, or anything that is thy neighbor's.
22. These words the LORD spake unto all your assembly in the mount out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice: and he added no more. And he wrote them upon two tables of stone, and gave them unto me.
23. And it came to pass, when ye heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, that ye came near unto me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders;
24. and ye said, Behold, the LORD our God has showed us his glory and his greatness, and we have heard his voice out of the midst of the fire: we have seen this day that God does speak with man, and he liveth.
25. Now therefore why should we die? for this great fire will consume us: if we hear the voice of the LORD our God any more, then we shall die.
26. For who is there of all flesh, that has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we have, and lived?
27. Go thou near, and hear all that the LORD our God shall say: and speak thou unto us all that the LORD our God shall speak to you; and we will hear it, and do it.
28. And the LORD heard the voice of your words, when ye spake unto me; and the LORD said unto me, I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they have spoken to you: they have well said all that they have spoken.
29. Oh that there were such a heart in them, that they would fear me, and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them, and with their children for ever!
30. Go say to them, Return ye to your tents.
31. But as for thee, stand thou here by me, and I will speak to you all the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which you shall teach them, that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess it.
32. Ye shall observe to do therefore as the LORD your God has commanded you: ye shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
33. Ye shall walk in all the way which the LORD your God has commanded you, that ye may live, and that it may be well with you, and that ye may prolong your days in the land which ye shall possess.