1. All the commandment which I command thee this day shall ye observe to do, that ye may live, and multiply, and go in and possess the land which the LORD sware unto your fathers.
2. And you shall remember all the way which the LORD thy God has led thee these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble thee, to prove thee, to know what was in thy heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments, or not.
3. And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know; that he might make thee know that man does not live by bread only, but by everything that proceedeth out of the mouth of the LORD does man live.
4. Thy raiment waxed not old upon thee, neither did thy foot swell, these forty years.
5. And you shall consider in thy heart, that, as a man chasteneth his son, so the LORD thy God chasteneth thee.
6. And you shall keep the commandments of the LORD thy God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him.
7. For the LORD thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and springs, flowing forth in valleys and hills;
8. a land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig-trees and pomegranates; a land of olive-trees and honey;
9. a land in which you shall eat bread without scarceness, you shall not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest dig copper.
10. And you shall eat and be full, and you shall bless the LORD thy God for the good land which he has given thee.
11. Beware lest thou forget the LORD thy God, in not keeping his commandments, and his ordinances, and his statutes, which I command thee this day:
12. lest, when you have eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses, and dwelt in it;
13. and when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied;
14. then thy heart be lifted up, and thou forget the LORD thy God, who brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;
15. who led thee through the great and terrible wilderness, [in which were] fiery serpents and scorpions, and thirsty ground where was no water; who brought thee forth water out of the rock of flint;
16. who fed thee in the wilderness with manna, which thy fathers knew not; that he might humble thee, and that he might prove thee, to do thee good at thy latter end:
17. and [lest] thou say in thy heart, My power and the might of my hand has gotten me this wealth.
18. But you shall remember the LORD thy God, for it is he that gives thee power to get wealth; that he may establish his covenant which he sware unto thy fathers, as at this day.
19. And it will be, if you shall forget the LORD thy God, and walk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I testify against you this day that ye shall surely perish.
20. As the nations that the LORD makes to perish before you, so shall ye perish; because ye would not hearken unto the voice of the LORD your God.