1. At the end of every seven years you shall make a release.
2. And this is the manner of the release: every creditor shall release that which he has lent unto his neighbor; he shall not exact it of his neighbor and his brother; because the LORD's release has been proclaimed.
3. Of a foreigner thou mayest exact it: but whatsoever of thine is with thy brother thy hand shall release.
4. Howbeit there will be no poor with thee; (for the LORD will surely bless thee in the land which the LORD thy God gives thee for an inheritance to possess it;)
5. if only thou diligently hearken unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to observe to do all this commandment which I command thee this day.
6. For the LORD thy God will bless thee, as he promised thee: and you shall lend unto many nations, but you shall not borrow; and you shall rule over many nations, but they shall not rule over thee.
7. If there be with thee a poor man, one of thy brethren, within any of thy gates in thy land which the LORD thy God gives thee, you shall not harden thy heart, nor shut thy hand from thy poor brother;
8. but you shall surely open thy hand to him, and shalt surely lend him sufficient for his need [in that] which he wanteth.
9. Beware that there be not a base thought in thy heart, saying, The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand; and thine eye be evil against thy poor brother, and thou give him nought; and he cry unto the LORD against thee, and it be sin to you.
10. you shall surely give him, and thy heart shall not be grieved when thou givest to him; because that for this thing the LORD thy God will bless thee in all thy work, and in all that thou puttest thy hand unto.
11. For the poor will never cease out of the land: therefore I command thee, saying, you shall surely open thy hand unto thy brother, to thy needy, and to thy poor, in thy land.
12. If thy brother, a Hebrew man, or a Hebrew woman, be sold to you, and serve thee six years; then in the seventh year you shall let him go free from thee.
13. And when thou lettest him go free from thee, you shall not let him go empty:
14. you shall furnish him liberally out of thy flock, and out of thy threshing-floor, and out of thy winepress; as the LORD thy God has blessed thee you shall give to him.
15. And you shall remember that thou wast a bondman in the land of Egypt, and the LORD thy God redeemed thee: therefore I command thee this thing to-day.
16. And it will be, if he say to you, I will not go out from thee; because he loveth thee and thy house, because he is well with thee;
17. then you shall take an awl, and thrust it through his ear unto the door, and he will be thy servant for ever. And also unto thy maid-servant you shall do likewise. [
18. It shall not seem hard to you, when thou lettest him go free from thee; for to the double of the hire of a hireling has he served thee six years: and the LORD thy God will bless thee in all that thou doest.
19. All the firstling males that are born of thy herd and of thy flock you shall sanctify unto the LORD thy God: you shall do no work with the firstling of thy herd, nor shear the firstling of thy flock.
20. you shall eat it before the LORD thy God year by year in the place which the LORD shall choose, thou and thy household.
21. And if it have any blemish, [as if it be] lame or blind, any ill blemish whatsoever, you shall not sacrifice it unto the LORD thy God.
22. you shall eat it within thy gates: the unclean and the clean [shall eat it] alike, as the gazelle, and as the hart.
23. Only you shall not eat the blood of it; you shall pour it out upon the ground as water.