1. And it shall come to pass, if you shall hearken diligently unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to observe to do all his commandments which I command thee this day, that the LORD thy God will set thee on high above all the nations of the earth:
2. and all these blessings shall come upon thee, and overtake thee, if you shall hearken unto the voice of the LORD thy God.
3. Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed shalt thou be in the field.
4. Blessed will be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground, and the fruit of thy beasts, the increase of thy cattle, and the young of thy flock.
5. Blessed will be thy basket and thy kneading-trough.
6. Blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and blessed shalt thou be when thou goest out.
7. the LORD will cause thine enemies that rise up against thee to be smitten before thee: they shall come out against thee one way, and shall flee before thee seven ways.
8. the LORD will command the blessing upon thee in thy barns, and in all that thou puttest thy hand unto; and he will bless thee in the land which the LORD thy God gives thee.
9. the LORD will establish thee for a holy people unto himself, as he has sworn to you; if you shall keep the commandments of the LORD thy God, and walk in his ways.
10. And all the peoples of the earth shall see that you are called by the name of the LORD; and they will be afraid of thee.
11. And the LORD will make thee plenteous for good, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy ground, in the land which the LORD sware unto thy fathers to give thee.
12. the LORD will open to you his good treasure the heavens, to give the rain of thy land in its season, and to bless all the work of thy hand: and you shall lend unto many nations, and you shall not borrow.
13. And the LORD will make thee the head, and not the tail; and you shall be above only, and you shall not be beneath; if you shall hearken unto the commandments of the LORD thy God, which I command thee this day, to observe and to do [them] ,
14. and shalt not turn aside from any of the words which I command you this day, to the right hand, or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
15. But it shall come to pass, if thou wilt not hearken unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which I command thee this day, that all these curses shall come upon thee, and overtake thee.
16. Cursed shalt thou be in the city, and cursed shalt thou be in the field.
17. Cursed will be thy basket and thy kneading-trough.
18. Cursed will be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground, the increase of thy cattle, and the young of thy flock.
19. Cursed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and cursed shalt thou be when thou goest out.
20. the LORD will send upon thee cursing, discomfiture, and rebuke, in all that thou puttest thy hand unto to do, until thou be destroyed, and until thou perish quickly; because of the evil of thy doings, by which you have forsaken me.
21. the LORD will make the pestilence cleave to you, until he have consumed thee from off the land, whither thou goest in to possess it.
22. the LORD will smite thee with consumption, and with fever, and with inflammation, and with fiery heat, and with the sword, and with blasting, and with mildew; and they shall pursue thee until thou perish.
23. And thy heaven that is over thy head will be brass, and the earth that is under thee will be iron.
24. the LORD will make the rain of thy land powder and dust: from heaven shall it come down upon thee, until thou be destroyed.
25. the LORD will cause thee to be smitten before thine enemies; you shall go out one way against them, and shalt flee seven ways before them: and you shall be tossed to and from among all the kingdoms of the earth.
26. And thy dead body will be food unto all birds of the heavens, and unto the beasts of the earth; and there will be none to frighten them away.
27. the LORD will smite thee with the boil of Egypt, and with the emerods, and with the scurvy, and with the itch, of which thou canst not be healed.
28. the LORD will smite thee with madness, and with blindness, and with astonishment of heart;
29. and you shall grope at noonday, as the blind gropeth in darkness, and you shall not prosper in thy ways: and you shall be only oppressed and robbed alway, and there will be none to save thee.
30. you shall betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her: you shall build a house, and you shall not dwell in it: you shall plant a vineyard, and shalt not use the fruit of it.
31. Thine ox will be slain before thine eyes, and you shall not eat of it: thine ass will be violently taken away from before thy face, and shall not be restored to thee: thy sheep will be given unto thine enemies, and you shall have none to save thee.
32. Thy sons and thy daughters will be given unto another people; and thine eyes shall look, and fail with longing for them all the day: and there will be nought in the power of thy hand.
33. The fruit of thy ground, and all thy labors, shall a nation which thou knowest not eat up; and you shall be only oppressed and crushed alway;
34. so that you shall be mad for the sight of thine eyes which you shall see.
35. the LORD will smite thee in the knees, and in the legs, with a sore boil, of which thou canst not be healed, from the sole of thy foot unto the crown of thy head.
36. the LORD will bring thee, and thy king whom you shall set over thee, unto a nation that you have not known, thou nor thy fathers; and there shalt thou serve other gods, wood and stone.
37. And you shall become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword, among all the peoples whither the LORD shall lead thee away.
38. you shall carry much seed out into the field, and shalt gather little in; for the locust shall consume it.
39. you shall plant vineyards and dress them, but you shall neither drink of the wine, nor gather [the grapes] ; for the worm shall eat them.
40. you shall have olive-trees throughout all thy borders, but you shall not anoint thyself with the oil; for thine olive shall cast [its fruit] .
41. you shall beget sons and daughters, but they shall not be thine; for they shall go into captivity.
42. All thy trees and the fruit of thy ground shall the locust possess.
43. The sojourner that is in the midst of thee shall mount up above thee higher and higher; and you shall come down lower and lower.
44. He shall lend to thee, and you shall not lend to him: he will be the head, and you shall be the tail.
45. And all these curses shall come upon thee, and shall pursue thee, and overtake thee, till thou be destroyed; because thou hearkenedst not unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which he commanded thee:
46. and they will be upon thee for a sign and for a wonder, and upon thy seed for ever.
47. Because thou servedst not the LORD thy God with joyfulness, and with gladness of heart, by reason of the abundance of all things;
48. therefore shalt thou serve thine enemies that the LORD shall send against thee, in hunger, and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in want of all things: and he shall put a yoke of iron upon thy neck, until he have destroyed thee.
49. the LORD will bring a nation against thee from far, from the end of the earth, as the eagle flieth; a nation whose tongue you shall not understand;
50. a nation of fierce countenance, that shall not regard the person of the old, nor show favor to the young,
51. and shall eat the fruit of thy cattle, and the fruit of thy ground, until thou be destroyed; that also shall not leave thee grain, new wine, or oil, the increase of thy cattle, or the young of thy flock, until they have caused thee to perish.
52. And they shall besiege thee in all thy gates, until thy high and fortified walls come down, in which thou trustedst, throughout all thy land; and they shall besiege thee in all thy gates throughout all thy land, which the LORD thy God has given thee.
53. And you shall eat the fruit of thine own body, the flesh of thy sons and of thy daughters, whom the LORD thy God has given thee, in the siege and in the distress wherewith thine enemies shall distress thee.
54. The man that is tender among you, and very delicate, his eye will be evil toward his brother, and toward the wife of his bosom, and toward the remnant of his children whom he has remaining;
55. so that he will not give to any of them of the flesh of his children whom he shall eat, because he has nothing left him, in the siege and in the distress wherewith thine enemy shall distress thee in all thy gates.
56. The tender and delicate woman among you, who would not adventure to set the sole of her foot upon the ground for delicateness and tenderness, her eye will be evil toward the husband of her bosom, and toward her son, and toward her daughter,
57. and toward her young one that comes out from between her feet, and toward her children whom she shall bear; for she shall eat them for want of all things secretly, in the siege and in the distress wherewith thine enemy shall distress thee in thy gates.
58. If thou wilt not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that thou mayest fear this glorious and fearful name, the LORD THY GOD;
59. then the LORD will make thy plagues wonderful, and the plagues of thy seed, even great plagues, and of long continuance, and sore sicknesses, and of long continuance.
60. And he will bring upon thee again all the diseases of Egypt, which thou wast afraid of; and they shall cleave to you.
61. Also every sickness, and every plague, which is not written in the book of this law, them will the LORD bring upon thee, until thou be destroyed.
62. And ye will be left few in number, whereas ye were as the stars of heaven for multitude; because thou didst not hearken unto the voice of the LORD thy God.
63. And it shall come to pass, that, as the LORD rejoiced over you to do you good, and to multiply you, so the LORD will rejoice over you to cause you to perish, and to destroy you; and ye will be plucked from off the land whither thou goest in to possess it.
64. And the LORD will scatter thee among all peoples, from the one end of the earth even unto the other end of the earth; and there you shall serve other gods, which you have not known, thou nor thy fathers, even wood and stone.
65. And among these nations shalt thou find no ease, and there will be no rest for the sole of thy foot: but the LORD will give thee there a trembling heart, and failing of eyes, and pining of soul;
66. and thy life shall hang in doubt before thee; and you shall fear night and day, and shalt have no assurance of thy life.
67. In the morning you shall say, Would it were even! and at even you shall say, Would it were morning! for the fear of thy heart which you shall fear, and for the sight of thine eyes which you shall see.
68. And the LORD will bring thee into Egypt again with ships, by the way of which I said to you, you shall see it no more again: and there ye shall sell yourselves unto your enemies for bondmen and for bondwomen, and no man shall buy you.