1. He that is wounded in the stones, or has his privy member cut off, shall not enter into the assembly of the LORD.
2. A bastard shall not enter into the assembly of the LORD; even to the tenth generation shall none of his enter into the assembly of the LORD.
3. An Ammonite or a Moabite shall not enter into the assembly of the LORD; even to the tenth generation shall none belonging to them enter into the assembly of the LORD for ever:
4. because they met you not with bread and with water in the way, when ye came forth out of Egypt, and because they hired against thee Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse thee.
5. Nevertheless the LORD thy God would not hearken unto Balaam; but the LORD thy God turned the curse into a blessing to you, because the LORD thy God loved thee.
6. you shall not seek their peace nor their prosperity all thy days for ever.
7. you shall not abhor an Edomite; for he is thy brother: you shall not abhor an Egyptian, because thou wast a sojourner in his land.
8. The children of the third generation that are born to them shall enter into the assembly of the LORD.
9. When thou goest forth in camp against thine enemies, then you shall keep thee from every evil thing.
10. If there be among you any man, that is not clean by reason of that which chanceth him by night, then shall he go abroad out of the camp, he shall not come within the camp:
11. but it will be, when evening comes on, he shall bathe himself in water; and when the sun is down, he shall come within the camp.
12. you shall have a place also without the camp, whither you shall go forth abroad:
13. and you shall have a paddle among thy weapons; and it will be, when thou sittest down abroad, you shall dig therewith, and shalt turn back and cover that which comes from thee:
14. for the LORD thy God walks in the midst of thy camp, to deliver thee, and to give up thine enemies before thee; therefore shall thy camp be holy, that he may not see an unclean thing in thee, and turn away from thee.
15. you shall not deliver unto his master a servant that is escaped from his master to you:
16. he shall dwell with thee, in the midst of thee, in the place which he shall choose within one of thy gates, where it pleaseth him best: you shall not oppress him.
17. There will be no prostitute of the daughters of Israel, neither shall there be a sodomite of the sons of Israel.
18. you shall not bring the hire of a harlot, or the wages of a dog, into the house of the LORD thy God for any vow: for even both these are an abomination unto the LORD thy God.
19. you shall not lend upon interest to thy brother; interest of money, interest of victuals, interest of anything that is lent upon interest:
20. unto a foreigner thou mayest lend upon interest; but unto thy brother you shall not lend upon interest, that the LORD thy God may bless thee in all that thou puttest thy hand unto, in the land whither thou goest in to possess it.
21. When you shall vow a vow unto the LORD thy God, you shall not be slack to pay it: for the LORD thy God will surely require it of thee; and it would be sin in thee.
22. But if you shall forbear to vow, it will be no sin in thee.
23. That which is gone out of thy lips you shall observe and do; according as you have vowed unto the LORD thy God, a freewill-offering, which you have promised with thy mouth.
24. When thou comest into thy neighbor's vineyard, then thou mayest eat of grapes thy fill at thine own pleasure; but you shall not put any in thy vessel.
25. When thou comest into thy neighbor's standing grain, then thou mayest pluck the ears with thy hand; but you shall not move a sickle unto thy neighbor's standing grain.