1. When thou goest forth to battle against thine enemies, and seest horses, and chariots, [and] a people more than thou, you shall not be afraid of them; for the LORD thy God is with thee, who brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.
2. And it will be, when ye draw nigh unto the battle, that the priest shall approach and speak unto the people,
3. and shall say to them, Hear, O Israel, ye draw nigh this day unto battle against your enemies: let not your heart faint; fear not, nor tremble, neither be ye affrighted at them;
4. for the LORD your God is he that goes with you, to fight for you against your enemies, to save you.
5. And the officers shall speak unto the people, saying, What man is there that has built a new house, and has not dedicated it? let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man dedicate it.
6. And what man is there that has planted a vineyard, and has not used the fruit of it? let him go and return unto his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man use the fruit of it.
7. And what man is there that has betrothed a wife, and has not taken her? let him go and return unto his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man take her.
8. And the officers shall speak further unto the people, and they shall say, What man is there that is fearful and faint-hearted? let him go and return unto his house, lest his brethren's heart melt as his heart.
9. And it will be, when the officers have made an end of speaking unto the people, that they shall appoint captains of hosts at the head of the people.
10. When thou drawest nigh unto a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace unto it.
11. And it will be, if it make thee answer of peace, and open to you, then it will be, that all the people that are found in it shall become tributary to you, and shall serve thee.
12. And if it will make no peace with thee, but will make war against thee, then you shall besiege it:
13. and when the LORD thy God delivereth it into thy hand, you shall smite every male of it with the edge of the sword:
14. but the women, and the little ones, and the cattle, and all that is in the city, even all the spoil of it, shalt thou take for a prey unto thyself; and you shall eat the spoil of thine enemies, which the LORD thy God has given thee.
15. Thus shalt thou do unto all the cities which are very far off from thee, which are not of the cities of these nations.
16. But of the cities of these peoples, that the LORD thy God gives thee for an inheritance, you shall save alive nothing that breatheth;
17. but you shall utterly destroy them: the Hittite, and the Amorite, the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; as the LORD thy God has commanded thee;
18. that they teach you not to do after all their abominations, which they have done unto their gods; so would ye sin against the LORD your God.
19. When you shall besiege a city a long time, in making war against it to take it, you shall not destroy the trees of it by wielding an axe against them; for thou mayest eat of them, and you shall not cut them down; for is the tree of the field man, that it should be besieged of thee?
20. Only the trees of which thou knowest that they are not trees for food, you shall destroy and cut them down; and you shall build bulwarks against the city that makes war with thee, until it fall.