1. Observe the month of Abib, and keep the passover unto the LORD thy God; for in the month of Abib the LORD thy God brought thee forth out of Egypt by night.
2. And you shall sacrifice the passover unto the LORD thy God, of the flock and the herd, in the place which the LORD shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
3. you shall eat no leavened bread with it; seven days shalt thou eat unleavened bread therewith, even the bread of affliction; for thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt in haste: that thou mayest remember the day when thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt all the days of thy life.
4. And there will be no leaven seen with thee in all thy borders seven days; neither shall any of the flesh, which thou sacrificest the first day at even, remain all night until the morning.
5. Thou mayest not sacrifice the passover within any of thy gates, which the LORD thy God gives thee;
6. but at the place which the LORD thy God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell in, there you shall sacrifice the passover at even, at the going down of the sun, at the season that thou camest forth out of Egypt.
7. And you shall roast and eat it in the place which the LORD thy God shall choose: and you shall turn in the morning, and go unto thy tents.
8. Six days you shall eat unleavened bread; and on the seventh day will be a solemn assembly to the LORD thy God; you shall do no work [in it] .
9. Seven weeks shalt thou number to you: from the time thou beginnest to put the sickle to the standing grain shalt thou begin to number seven weeks.
10. And you shall keep the feast of weeks unto the LORD thy God with a tribute of a freewill-offering of thy hand, which you shall give, according as the LORD thy God blesseth thee:
11. and you shall rejoice before the LORD thy God, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy man-servant, and thy maid-servant, and the Levite that is within thy gates, and the sojourner, and the fatherless, and the widow, that are in the midst of thee, in the place which the LORD thy God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
12. And you shall remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt: and you shall observe and do these statutes.
13. you shall keep the feast of tabernacles seven days, after that you have gathered in from thy threshing-floor and from thy winepress:
14. and you shall rejoice in thy feast, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy man-servant, and thy maid-servant, and the Levite, and the sojourner, and the fatherless, and the widow, that are within thy gates.
15. Seven days shalt thou keep a feast unto the LORD thy God in the place which the LORD shall choose; because the LORD thy God will bless thee in all thine increase, and in all the work of thy hands, and you shall be altogether joyful.
16. Three times in a year shall all thy males appear before the LORD thy God in the place which he shall choose: in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles; and they shall not appear before the LORD empty:
17. every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the LORD thy God which he has given thee.
18. Judges and officers shalt thou make thee in all thy gates, which the LORD thy God gives thee, according to thy tribes; and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment.
19. you shall not wrest justice: you shall not respect persons; neither shalt thou take a bribe; for a bribe does blind the eyes of the wise, and pervert the words of the righteous.
20. That which is altogether just shalt thou follow, that thou mayest live, and inherit the land which the LORD thy God gives thee.
21. you shall not plant thee an Asherah of any kind of tree beside the altar of the LORD thy God, which you shall make thee.
22. Neither shalt thou set thee up a pillar; which the LORD thy God hateth.