1. If there arise in the midst of thee a prophet, or a dreamer of dreams, and he give thee a sign or a wonder,
2. and the sign or the wonder come to pass, of which he spake to you, saying, Let us go after other gods, which you have not known, and let us serve them;
3. you shall not hearken unto the words of that prophet, or unto that dreamer of dreams: for the LORD your God proveth you, to know whether ye love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
4. Ye shall walk after the LORD your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and ye shall serve him, and cleave to him.
5. And that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams, will be put to death, because he has spoken rebellion against the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of bondage, to draw thee aside out of the way which the LORD thy God commanded thee to walk in. So shalt thou put away the evil from the midst of thee.
6. If thy brother, the son of thy mother, or thy son, or thy daughter, or the wife of thy bosom, or thy friend, that is as thine own soul, entice thee secretly, saying, Let us go and serve other gods, which you have not known, thou, nor thy fathers;
7. of the gods of the peoples that are round about you, nigh to you, or far off from thee, from the one end of the earth even unto the other end of the earth;
8. you shall not consent to him, nor hearken to him; neither shall thine eye pity him, neither shalt thou spare, neither shalt thou conceal him:
9. but you shall surely kill him; thy hand will be first upon him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the people.
10. And you shall stone him to death with stones, because he has sought to draw thee away from the LORD thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
11. And all Israel shall hear, and fear, and shall do not more any such wickedness as this is in the midst of thee.
12. If you shall hear tell concerning one of thy cities, which the LORD thy God gives thee to dwell there, saying,
13. Certain base fellows are gone out from the midst of thee, and have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, saying, Let us go and serve other gods, which ye have not known;
14. then shalt thou inquire, and make search, and ask diligently; and, behold, if it be truth, and the thing certain, that such abomination is wrought in the midst of thee,
15. you shall surely smite the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly, and all that is in it and the cattle of it, with the edge of the sword.
16. And you shall gather all the spoil of it into the midst of the street of it, and shalt burn with fire the city, and all the spoil of it every whit, unto the LORD thy God: and it will be a [ heap for ever; it shall not be built again.
17. And there shall cleave nought of the devoted thing to thy hand; that the LORD may turn from the fierceness of his anger, and show thee mercy, and have compassion upon thee, and multiply thee, as he has sworn unto thy fathers;
18. when you shall hearken to the voice of the LORD thy God, to keep all his commandments which I command thee this day, to do that which is right in the eyes of the LORD thy God.