1. And it will be, when you are come in unto the land which the LORD thy God gives thee for an inheritance, and possessest it, and dwellest in it,
2. that you shall take of the first of all the fruit of the ground, which you shall bring in from thy land that the LORD thy God gives thee; and you shall put it in a basket, and shalt go unto the place which the LORD thy God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
3. And you shall come unto the priest that will be in those days, and say to him, I profess this day unto the LORD thy God, that I am come unto the land which the LORD sware unto our fathers to give us.
4. And the priest shall take the basket out of thy hand, and set it down before the altar of the LORD thy God.
5. And you shall answer and say before the LORD thy God, A Syrian ready to perish was my father; and he went down into Egypt, and sojourned there, few in number; and he became there a nation, great, mighty, and populous.
6. And the Egyptians dealt ill with us, and afflicted us, and laid upon us hard bondage:
7. and we cried unto the LORD, the God of our fathers, and the LORD heard our voice, and saw our affliction, and our toil, and our oppression;
8. and the LORD brought us forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with great terribleness, and with signs, and with wonders;
9. and he has brought us into this place, and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
10. And now, behold, I have brought the first of the fruit of the ground, which thou, O the LORD, hast given me. And you shall set it down before the LORD thy God, and worship before the LORD thy God:
11. and you shall rejoice in all the good which the LORD thy God has given to you, and unto thy house, thou, and the Levite, and the sojourner that is in the midst of thee.
12. When you have made an end of tithing all the tithe of thine increase in the third year, which is the year of tithing, then you shall give it unto the Levite, to the sojourner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, that they may eat within thy gates, and be filled.
13. And you shall say before the LORD thy God, I have put away the hallowed things out of my house, and also have given them unto the Levite, and unto the sojourner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all thy commandment which you have commanded me: I have not transgressed any of thy commandments, neither have I forgotten them:
14. I have not eaten of it in my mourning, neither have I put away of it, being unclean, nor given of it for the dead: I have hearkened to the voice of the LORD my God; I have done according to all that you have commanded me.
15. Look down from thy holy habitation, from heaven, and bless thy people Israel, and the ground which you have given us, as thou swarest unto our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.
16. This day the LORD thy God commandeth thee to do these statutes and ordinances: you shall therefore keep and do them with all thy heart, and with all thy soul.
17. you have avouched the LORD this day to be thy God, and that thou wouldest walk in his ways, and keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his ordinances, and hearken unto his voice:
18. and the LORD has avouched thee this day to be a people for his own possession, as he has promised thee, and that thou shouldest keep all his commandments;
19. and to make thee high above all nations that he has made, in praise, and in name, and in honor; and that thou mayest be a holy people unto the LORD thy God, as he has spoken.