1. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
2. Speak unto the children of Israel, that they take for me an offering: of every man whose heart makes him willing ye shall take my offering.
3. And this is the offering which ye shall take of them: gold, and silver, and brass,
4. and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' [hair] ,
5. and rams' skins dyed red, and sealskins, and acacia wood,
6. oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense,
7. onyx stones, and stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate.
8. And let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them.
9. According to all that I show thee, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the furniture of it, even so shall ye make it.
10. And they shall make an ark of acacia wood: two cubits and a half will be the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it.
11. And you shall overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about.
12. And you shall cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four feet of it; and two rings will be on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
13. And you shall make staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
14. And you shall put the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, wherewith to bear the ark.
15. The staves will be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it.
16. And you shall put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee.
17. And you shall make a mercy-seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half [will be] the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it.
18. And you shall make two cherubim of gold; of beaten work shalt thou make them, at the two ends of the mercy-seat.
19. And make one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end: of one piece with the mercy-seat shall ye make the cherubim on the two ends of it.
20. And the cherubim shall spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, with their faces one to another; toward the mercy-seat shall the faces of the cherubim be.
21. And you shall put the mercy-seat above upon the ark; and in the ark you shall put the testimony that I shall give thee.
22. And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel.
23. And you shall make a table of acacia wood: two cubits [will be] the length of it, and a cubit the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it.
24. And you shall overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about.
25. And you shall make unto it a border of a handbreadth round about; and you shall make a golden crown to the border of it round about.
26. And you shall make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet of it.
27. Close by the border shall the rings be, for places for the staves to bear the table.
28. And you shall make the staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them.
29. And you shall make the dishes of it, and the spoons of it, and the flagons of it, and the bowls of it, wherewith to pour out: of pure gold shalt thou make them.
30. And you shall set upon the table showbread before me alway.
31. And you shall make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candlestick be made, even its base, and its shaft; its cups, its knops, and its flowers, will be of one piece with it:
32. and there will be six branches going out of the sides of it; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side of it, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side of it:
33. three cups made like almond-blossoms in one branch, a knop and a flower; and three cups made like almond-blossoms in the other branch, a knop and a flower: so for the six branches going out of the candlestick:
34. and in the candlestick four cups made like almond-blossoms, the knops of it, and the flowers of it;
35. and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of the candlestick.
36. Their knops and their branches will be of one piece with it; the whole of it one beaten work of pure gold.
37. And you shall make the lamps of it, seven: and they shall light the lamps of it, to give light over against it.
38. And the snuffers of it, and the snuffdishes of it, will be of pure gold.
39. Of a talent of pure gold shall it be made, with all these vessels.
40. And see that thou make them after their pattern, which has been showed thee in the mount.