1. And you shall make an altar to burn incense upon: of acacia wood shalt thou make it.
2. A cubit will be the length of it, and a cubit the breadth of it; foursquare shall it be; and two cubits will be the height of it: the horns of it will be of one piece with it.
3. And you shall overlay it with pure gold, the top of it, and the sides of it round about, and the horns of it; and you shall make unto it a crown of gold round about.
4. And two golden rings shalt thou make for it under the crown of it; upon the two ribs of it, upon the two sides of it shalt thou make them; and they will be for places for staves wherewith to bear it.
5. And you shall make the staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
6. And you shall put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy-seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with thee.
7. And Aaron shall burn thereon incense of sweet spices: every morning, when he dresseth the lamps, he shall burn it.
8. And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he shall burn it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your generations.
9. Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt-offering, nor meal-offering; and ye shall pour no drink-offering thereon.
10. And Aaron shall make atonement upon the horns of it once in the year; with the blood of the sin-offering of atonement once in the year shall he make atonement for it throughout your generations: it is most holy unto the LORD.
11. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
12. When thou takest the sum of the children of Israel, according to those that are numbered of them, then shall they give every man a ransom for his soul unto the LORD, when thou numberest them; that there be no plague among them, when thou numberest them.
13. This they shall give, every one that passeth over to them that are numbered: half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary (the shekel is twenty gerahs), half a shekel for an offering to the LORD.
14. Every one that passeth over to them that are numbered, from twenty years old and upward, shall give the offering of the LORD.
15. The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less, than the half shekel, when they give the offering of the LORD, to make atonement for your souls.
16. And you shall take the atonement money from the children of Israel, and shalt appoint it for the service of the tent of meeting; that it may be a memorial for the children of Israel before the LORD, to make atonement for your souls.
17. And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
18. you shall also make a laver of brass, and the base of it of brass, whereat to wash. And you shall put it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and you shall put water in it.
19. And Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet thereat:
20. when they go into the tent of meeting, they shall wash with water, that they die not; or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
21. So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they die not: and it will be a statute for ever to them, even to him and to his seed throughout their generations.
22. Moreover the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
23. Take thou also to you the chief spices: of flowing myrrh five hundred [shekels], and of sweet cinnamon half so much, even two hundred and fifty, and of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty,
24. and of cassia five hundred, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of olive oil a hin;
25. and you shall make it a holy anointing oil, a perfume compounded after the art of the perfumer: it will be a holy anointing oil.
26. And you shall anoint therewith the tent of meeting, and the ark of the testimony,
27. and the table and all the vessels of it, and the candlestick and the vessels of it, and the altar of incense,
28. and the altar of burnt-offering with all the vessels of it, and the laver and the base of it.
29. And you shall sanctify them, that they may be most holy: whatsoever toucheth them will be holy.
30. And you shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and sanctify them, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.
31. And you shall speak unto the children of Israel, saying, This will be a holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations.
32. Upon the flesh of man shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make any like it, according to the composition of it: it is holy, [and] it will be holy unto you.
33. Whosoever compoundeth any like it, or whosoever putteth any of it upon a stranger, he will be cut off from his people.
34. And the LORD said unto Moses, Take to you sweet spices, stacte, and onycha, and galbanum; sweet spices with pure frankincense: of each shall there be a like weight;
35. and you shall make of it incense, a perfume after the art of the perfumer, seasoned with salt, pure [and] holy:
36. and you shall beat some of it very small, and put of it before the testimony in the tent of meeting, where I will meet with thee: it will be unto you most holy.
37. And the incense which you shall make, according to the composition of it ye shall not make for yourselves: it will be to you holy for the LORD.
38. Whosoever shall make like unto that, to smell of it, he will be cut off from his people.