1. And you shall make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar will be foursquare: and the height of it will be three cubits.
2. And you shall make the horns of it upon the four corners of it; the horns of it will be of one piece with it: and you shall overlay it with brass.
3. And you shall make its pots to take away its ashes, and its shovels, and its basins, and its flesh-hooks, and its firepans: all the vessels of it you shall make of brass.
4. And you shall make for it a grating of network of brass; and upon the net shalt thou make four brazen rings in the four corners of it.
5. And you shall put it under the ledge round the altar beneath, that the net may reach halfway up the altar.
6. And you shall make staves for the altar, staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with brass.
7. And the staves of it will be put into the rings, and the staves will be upon the two sides of the altar, in bearing it.
8. Hollow with planks shalt thou make it: as it has been showed thee in the mount, so shall they make it.
9. And you shall make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there will be hangings for the court of fine twined linen a hundred cubits long for one side:
10. and the pillars of it will be twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets [will be] of silver.
11. And likewise for the north side in length there will be hangings a hundred cubits long, and the pillars of it twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver.
12. And for the breadth of the court on the west side will be hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
13. And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward will be fifty cubits.
14. The hangings for the one side [of the gate] will be fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
15. And for the other side will be hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
16. And for the gate of the court will be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four.
17. All the pillars of the court round about will be filleted with silver; their hooks of silver, and their sockets of brass.
18. The length of the court will be a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits, of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass.
19. All the instruments of the tabernacle in all the service of it, and all the pins of it, and all the pins of the court, will be of brass.
20. And you shall command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually.
21. In the tent of meeting, without the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall keep it in order from evening to morning before the LORD: it will be a statue for ever throughout their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.