1. Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,
2. Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her abominations;
3. and say, Thus says the Lord the LORD unto Jerusalem: Thy birth and thy nativity is of the land of the Canaanite; the Amorite was thy father, and thy mother was a Hittite.
4. And as for thy nativity, in the day thou wast born thy navel was not cut, neither wast thou washed in water to cleanse thee; thou wast not salted at all, nor swaddled at all.
5. No eye pitied thee, to do any of these things to you, to have compassion upon thee; but thou wast cast out in the open field, for that thy person was abhorred, in the day that thou wast born.
6. And when I passed by thee, and saw thee weltering in thy blood, I said to you, [Though you are] in thy blood, live; yea, I said to you, [Though you are] in thy blood, live.
7. I caused thee to multiply as that which groweth in the field, and thou didst increase and wax great, and thou attainedst to excellent ornament; thy breasts were fashioned, and thy hair was grown; yet thou wast naked and bare.
8. Now when I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, behold, thy time was the time of love; and I spread my skirt over thee, and covered thy nakedness: yea, I sware to you, and entered into a covenant with thee, says the Lord the LORD, and thou becamest mine.
9. Then washed I thee with water; yea, I thoroughly washed away thy blood from thee, and I anointed thee with oil.
10. I clothed thee also with broidered work, and shod thee with sealskin, and I girded thee about with fine linen, and covered thee with silk.
11. And I decked thee with ornaments, and I put bracelets upon thy hands, and a chain on thy neck.
12. And I put a ring upon thy nose, and ear-rings in thine ears, and a beautiful crown upon thy head.
13. Thus wast thou decked with gold and silver; and thy raiment was of fine linen, and silk, and broidered work; thou didst eat fine flour, and honey, and oil; and thou wast exceeding beautiful, and thou didst prosper unto royal estate.
14. And thy renown went forth among the nations for thy beauty; for it was perfect, through my majesty which I had put upon thee, says the Lord the LORD.
15. But thou didst trust in thy beauty, and playedst the harlot because of thy renown, and pouredst out thy whoredoms on every one that passed by; his it was.
16. And thou didst take of thy garments, and madest for thee high places decked with divers colors, and playedst the harlot upon them: [the like things] shall not come, neither shall it be [so] .
17. Thou didst also take thy fair jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had given thee, and madest for thee images of men, and didst play the harlot with them;
18. and thou tookest thy broidered garments, and coveredst them, and didst set mine oil and mine incense before them.
19. My bread also which I gave thee, fine flour, and oil, and honey, wherewith I fed thee, thou didst even set it before them for a sweet savor; and [thus] it was, says the Lord the LORD.
20. Moreover you have taken thy sons and thy daughters, whom you have borne unto me, and these hast thou sacrificed to them to be devoured. Were thy whoredoms a small matter,
21. that you have slain my children, and delivered them up, in causing them to pass through [the fire] to them?
22. And in all thine abominations and thy whoredoms you have not remembered the days of thy youth, when thou wast naked and bare, and wast weltering in thy blood.
23. And it is come to pass after all thy wickedness, (woe, woe to you! says the Lord the LORD,)
24. that you have built to you a vaulted place, and hast made thee a lofty place in every street.
25. you have built thy lofty place at the head of every way, and hast made thy beauty an abomination, and hast opened thy feet to every one that passed by, and multiplied thy whoredom.
26. you have also committed fornication with the Egyptians, thy neighbors, great of flesh; and hast multiplied thy whoredom, to provoke me to anger.
27. Behold therefore, I have stretched out my hand over thee, and have diminished thine ordinary [food], and delivered thee unto the will of them that hate thee, the daughters of the Philistines, that are ashamed of thy lewd way.
28. you have played the harlot also with the Assyrians, because thou wast insatiable; yea, you have played the harlot with them, and yet thou wast not satisfied.
29. you have moreover multiplied thy whoredom unto the land of traffic, unto Chaldea; and yet thou wast not satisfied herewith.
30. How weak is thy heart, says the Lord the LORD, seeing thou doest all these things, the work of an impudent harlot;
31. in that thou buildest thy vaulted place at the head of every way, and makest thy lofty place in every street, and hast not been as a harlot, in that thou scornest hire.
32. A wife that committeth adultery! that takes strangers instead of her husband!
33. They give gifts to all harlots; but thou givest thy gifts to all thy lovers, and bribest them, that they may come to you on every side for thy whoredoms.
34. And you are different from [other] women in thy whoredoms, in that none followeth thee to play the harlot; and whereas thou givest hire, and no hire is given to you, therefore you are different.
35. Wherefore, O harlot, hear the word of the LORD:
36. Thus says the Lord the LORD, Because thy filthiness was poured out, and thy nakedness uncovered through thy whoredoms with thy lovers; and because of all the idols of thy abominations, and for the blood of thy children, that thou didst give to them;
37. therefore behold, I will gather all thy lovers, with whom you have taken pleasure, and all them that you have loved, with all them that you have hated; I will even gather them against thee on every side, and will uncover thy nakedness to them, that they may see all thy nakedness.
38. And I will judge thee, as women that break wedlock and shed blood are judged; and I will bring upon thee the blood of wrath and jealousy.
39. I will also give thee into their hand, and they shall throw down thy vaulted place, and break down thy lofty places; and they shall strip thee of thy clothes, and take thy fair jewels; and they shall leave thee naked and bare.
40. They shall also bring up a company against thee, and they shall stone thee with stones, and thrust thee through with their swords.
41. And they shall burn thy houses with fire, and execute judgments upon thee in the sight of many women; and I will cause thee to cease from playing the harlot, and you shall also give no hire any more.
42. So will I cause my wrath toward thee to rest, and my jealousy shall depart from thee, and I will be quiet, and will be no more angry.
43. Because you have not remembered the days of thy youth, but hast raged against me in all these things; therefore, behold, I also will bring thy way upon thy head, says the Lord the LORD: and you shall not commit this lewdness with all thine abominations.
44. Behold, every one that useth proverbs shall use [this] proverb against thee, saying, As is the mother, so is her daughter.
45. you are the daughter of thy mother, that loatheth her husband and her children; and you are the sister of thy sisters, who loathed their husbands and their children: your mother was a Hittite, and your father an Amorite.
46. And thine elder sister is Samaria, that dwelleth at thy left hand, she and her daughters; and thy younger sister, that dwelleth at thy right hand, is Sodom and her daughters.
47. Yet hast thou not walked in their ways, nor done after their abominations; but, as [if that were] a very little [thing], thou wast more corrupt than they in all thy ways.
48. As I live, says the Lord the LORD, Sodom thy sister has not done, she nor her daughters, as you have done, thou and thy daughters.
49. Behold, this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom: pride, fulness of bread, and prosperous ease was in her and in her daughters; neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy.
50. And they were haughty, and committed abomination before me: therefore I took them away as I saw [good] .
51. Neither has Samaria committed half of thy sins; but you have multiplied thine abominations more than they, and hast justified thy sisters by all thine abominations which you have done.
52. Thou also, bear thou thine own shame, in that you have given judgment for thy sisters; through thy sins that you have committed more abominable than they, they are more righteous that thou: yea, be thou also confounded, and bear thy shame, in that you have justified thy sisters.
53. And I will turn again their captivity, the captivity of Sodom and her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her daughters, and the captivity of thy captives in the midst of them;
54. that thou mayest bear thine own shame, and mayest be ashamed because of all that you have done, in that you are a comfort to them.
55. And thy sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shall return to their former estate; and Samaria and her daughters shall return to their former estate; and thou and thy daughters shall return to your former estate.
56. For thy sister Sodom was not mentioned by thy mouth in the day of thy pride,
57. before thy wickedness was uncovered, as at the time of the reproach of the daughters of Syria, and of all that are round about her, the daughters of the Philistines, that do despite to you round about.
58. you have borne thy lewdness and thine abominations, says the LORD.
59. For thus says the Lord the LORD: I will also deal with thee as you have done, who hast despised the oath in breaking the covenant.
60. Nevertheless I will remember my covenant with thee in the days of thy youth, and I will establish to you an everlasting covenant.
61. Then shalt thou remember thy ways, and be ashamed, when you shall receive thy sisters, thine elder [sisters] and thy younger; and I will give them to you for daughters, but not by thy covenant.
62. And I will establish my covenant with thee; and you shall know that I am the LORD;
63. that thou mayest remember, and be confounded, and never open thy mouth any more, because of thy shame, when I have forgiven thee all that you have done, says the Lord the LORD.