1. The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,
2. Son of man, say unto the prince of Tyre, Thus says the Lord the LORD: Because thy heart is lifted up, and you have said, I am a god, I sit in the seat of God, in the midst of the seas; yet you are man, and not God, though thou didst set thy heart as the heart of God;--
3. behold, you are wiser than Daniel; there is no secret that is hidden from thee;
4. by thy wisdom and by thine understanding you have gotten thee riches, and hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasures;
5. by thy great wisdom [and] by thy traffic hast thou increased thy riches, and thy heart is lifted up because of thy riches;--
6. therefore thus says the Lord the LORD: Because you have set thy heart as the heart of God,
7. therefore, behold, I will bring strangers upon thee, the terrible of the nations; and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall defile thy brightness.
8. They shall bring thee down to the pit; and you shall die the death of them that are slain, in the heart of the seas.
9. will you yet say before him that slayeth thee, I am God? but you are man, and not God, in the hand of him that woundeth thee.
10. you shall die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers: for I have spoken it, says the Lord the LORD.
11. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,
12. Son of man, take up a lamentation over the king of Tyre, and say to him, Thus says the Lord the LORD: Thou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty.
13. Thou wast in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone was thy covering, the sardius, the topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle, and gold: the workmanship of thy tabrets and of thy pipes was in thee; in the day that thou wast created they were prepared.
14. Thou wast the anointed cherub that covereth: and I set thee, [so that] thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; you have walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.
15. Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created, till unrighteousness was found in thee.
16. By the abundance of thy traffic they filled the midst of thee with violence, and you have sinned: therefore have I cast thee as profane out of the mountain of God; and I have destroyed thee, O covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
17. Thy heart was lifted up because of thy beauty; you have corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness: I have cast thee to the ground; I have laid thee before kings, that they may behold thee.
18. By the multitude of thine iniquities, in the unrighteousness of thy traffic, you have profaned thy sanctuaries; therefore have I brought forth a fire from the midst of thee; it has devoured thee, and I have turned thee to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all them that behold thee.
19. All they that know thee among the peoples will be astonished at thee: you are become a terror, and you shall nevermore have any being.
20. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,
21. Son of man, set thy face toward Sidon, and prophesy against it,
22. and say, Thus says the Lord the LORD: Behold, I am against thee, O Sidon; and I will be glorified in the midst of thee; and they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and will be sanctified in her.
23. For I will send pestilence into her, and blood into her streets; and the wounded shall fall in the midst of her, with the sword upon her on every side; and they shall know that I am the LORD. [
24. And there will be no more a pricking brier unto the house of Israel, nor a hurting thorn of any that are round about them, that did despite to them; and they shall know that I am the Lord the LORD.
25. Thus says the Lord the LORD: When I shall have gathered the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered, and will be sanctified in them in the sight of the nations, then shall they dwell in their own land which I gave to my servant Jacob.
26. And they shall dwell securely in it; yea, they shall build houses, and plant vineyards, and shall dwell securely, when I have executed judgments upon all those that do them despite round about them; and they shall know that I am the LORD their God.