1. The hand of the LORD was upon me, and he brought me out in the Spirit of the LORD, and set me down in the midst of the valley; and it was full of bones.
2. And he caused me to pass by them round about: and, behold, there were very many in the open valley; and, lo, they were very dry.
3. And he said unto me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord the LORD, thou knowest.
4. Again he said unto me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.
5. Thus says the Lord the LORD unto these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall live.
6. And I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.
7. So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and, behold, an earthquake; and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
8. And I beheld, and, lo, there were sinews upon them, and flesh came up, and skin covered them above; but there was no breath in them.
9. Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus says the Lord the LORD: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live.
10. So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceeding great army.
11. Then he said unto me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel: behold, they say, Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are clean cut off.
12. Therefore prophesy, and say to them, Thus says the Lord the LORD: Behold, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, O my people; and I will bring you into the land of Israel.
13. And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I have opened your graves, and caused you to come up out of your graves, O my people.
14. And I will put my Spirit in you, and ye shall live, and I will place you in your own land: and ye shall know that I, the LORD, have spoken it and performed it, says the LORD.
15. The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,
16. And thou, son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and [for] all the house of Israel his companions:
17. and join them for thee one to another into one stick, that they may become one in thy hand.
18. And when the children of thy people shall speak to you, saying, will you not show us what thou meanest by these?
19. say to them, Thus says the Lord the LORD: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his companions; and I will put them with it, [even] with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they will be one in my hand.
20. And the sticks whereon thou writest will be in thy hand before their eyes.
21. And say to them, Thus says the Lord the LORD: Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the nations, whither they are gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land:
22. and I will make them one nation in the land, upon the mountains of Israel; and one king will be king to them all; and they will be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms any more at all;
23. neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions; but I will save them out of all their dwelling-places, in which they have sinned, and will cleanse them: so shall they be my people, and I will be their God.
24. And my servant David will be king over them; and they all shall have one shepherd: they shall also walk in mine ordinances, and observe my statutes, and do them.
25. And they shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob my servant, in which your fathers dwelt; and they shall dwell in it, they, and their children, and their children's children, for ever: and David my servant will be their prince for ever.
26. Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them; it will be an everlasting covenant with them; and I will place them, and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore.
27. My tabernacle also will be with them; and I will be their God, and they will be my people.
28. And the nations shall know that I am the LORD that sanctifieth Israel, when my sanctuary will be in the midst of them for evermore.