1. Afterward he brought me to the gate, even the gate that looketh toward the east.
2. And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east: and his voice was like the sound of many waters; and the earth shined with his glory.
3. And it was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw, even according to the vision that I saw when I came to destroy the city; and the visions were like the vision that I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell upon my face.
4. And the glory of the LORD came into the house by the way of the gate whose prospect is toward the east.
5. And the Spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner court; and, behold, the glory of the LORD filled the house.
6. And I heard one speaking unto me out of the house; and a man stood by me.
7. And he said unto me, Son of man, [this is] the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel for ever. And the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name, neither they, nor their kings, by their whoredom, and by the dead bodies of their kings [in] their high places;
8. in their setting of their threshold by my threshold, and their door-post beside my door-post, and there was [but] the wall between me and them; and they have defiled my holy name by their abominations which they have committed: wherefore I have consumed them in mine anger.
9. Now let them put away their whoredom, and the dead bodies of their kings, far from me; and I will dwell in the midst of them for ever.
10. Thou, son of man, show the house to the house of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and let them measure the pattern.
11. And if they be ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the form of the house, and the fashion of it, and the egresses of it, and the entrances of it, and all the forms of it, and all the ordinances of it, and all the forms of it, and all the laws of it; and write it in their sight; that they may keep the whole form of it, and all the ordinances of it, and do them.
12. This is the law of the house: upon the top of the mountain the whole limit of it round about will be most holy. Behold, this is the law of the house.
13. And these are the measures of the altar by cubits (the cubit is a cubit and a handbreadth): the bottom will be a cubit, and the breadth a cubit, and the border of it by the edge of it round about a span; and this will be the base of the altar.
14. And from the bottom upon the ground to the lower ledge will be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit; and from the lesser ledge to the greater ledge will be four cubits, and the breadth a cubit.
15. And the upper altar will be four cubits; and from the altar hearth and upward there will be four horns.
16. And the altar hearth will be twelve [cubits] long by twelve broad, square in the four sides of it.
17. And the ledge will be fourteen [cubits] long by fourteen broad in the four sides of it; and the border about it will be half a cubit; and the bottom of it will be a cubit round about; and the steps of it shall look toward the east.
18. And he said unto me, Son of man, thus says the Lord the LORD: These are the ordinances of the altar in the day when they shall make it, to offer burnt-offerings thereon, and to sprinkle blood thereon.
19. you shall give to the priests the Levites that are of the seed of Zadok, who are near unto me, to minister unto me, says the Lord the LORD, a young bullock for a sin-offering.
20. And you shall take of the blood of it, and put it on the four horns of it, and on the four corners of the ledge, and upon the border round about: thus shalt thou cleanse it and make atonement for it.
21. you shall also take the bullock of the sin-offering, and it will be burnt in the appointed place of the house, without the sanctuary.
22. And on the second day you shall offer a he-goat without blemish for a sin-offering; and they shall cleanse the altar, as they did cleanse it with the bullock.
23. When you have made an end of cleansing it, you shall offer a young bullock without blemish, and a ram out of the flock without blemish.
24. And you shall bring them near before the LORD, and the priests shall cast salt upon them, and they shall offer them up for a burnt-offering unto the LORD.
25. Seven days shalt thou prepare every day a goat for a sin-offering: they shall also prepare a young bullock, and a ram out of the flock, without blemish.
26. Seven days shall they make atonement for the altar and purify it; so shall they consecrate it.
27. And when they have accomplished the days, it will be that upon the eighth day, and forward, the priests shall make your burnt-offerings upon the altar, and your peace-offerings; and I will accept you, says the Lord the LORD.