1. Israel is a luxuriant vine, that putteth forth his fruit: according to the abundance of his fruit he has multiplied his altars; according to the goodness of their land they have made goodly [ pillars.
2. Their heart is divided; now shall they be found guilty: he will smite their altars, he will destroy their pillars.
3. Surely now shall they say, We have no king; for we fear not the LORD; and the king, what can he do for us?
4. They speak [vain] words, swearing falsely in making covenants: therefore judgment springeth up as hemlock in the furrows of the field. [
5. The inhabitants of Samaria will be in terror for the calves of Beth-aven; for the people of it shall mourn over it, and the priests of it that rejoiced over it, for the glory of it, because it is departed from it.
6. It also will be carried unto Assyria for a present to king Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel will be ashamed of his own counsel.
7. [As for] Samaria, her king is cut off, as foam upon the water.
8. The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, will be destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall on us.
9. O Israel, you have sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they stood; the battle against the children of iniquity does not overtake them in Gibeah.
10. When it is my desire, I will chastise them; and the peoples will be gathered against them, when they are bound to their two transgressions.
11. And Ephraim is a heifer that is taught, that loveth to tread out [the grain] ; but I have passed over upon her fair neck: I will set a rider on Ephraim; Judah shall plow, Jacob shall break his clods.
12. Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to kindness; break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek the LORD, till he come and rain righteousness upon you.
13. Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity; ye have eaten the fruit of lies; for thou didst trust in thy way, in the multitude of thy mighty men.
14. Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy fortresses will be destroyed, as Shalman destroyed Beth-arbel in the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces with her children.
15. So shall Beth-el do unto you because of your great wickedness: at daybreak shall the king of Israel be utterly cut off.