1. Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the LORD is risen upon thee.
2. For, behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the peoples; but the LORD will arise upon thee, and his glory will be seen upon thee.
3. And nations shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising.
4. Lift up thine eyes round about, and see: they all gather themselves together, they come to thee; thy sons shall come from far, and thy daughters will be carried in the arms.
5. Then you shall see and be radiant, and thy heart shall thrill and be enlarged; because the abundance of the sea will be turned to you, the wealth of the nations shall come to you.
6. The multitude of camels shall cover thee, the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah; all they from Sheba shall come; they shall bring gold and frankincense, and shall proclaim the praises of the LORD.
7. All the flocks of Kedar will be gathered together to you, the rams of Nebaioth shall minister to you; they shall come up with acceptance on mine altar; and I will glorify the house of my glory.
8. Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows?
9. Surely the isles shall wait for me, and the ships of Tarshish first, to bring thy sons from far, their silver and their gold with them, for the name of the LORD thy God, and for the Holy One of Israel, because he has [ glorified thee.
10. And foreigners shall build up thy walls, and their kings shall minister to you: for in my wrath I smote thee, but in my favor have I had mercy on thee.
11. Thy gates also will be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor night; that men may bring to you the wealth of the nations, and their kings led captive.
12. For that nation and kingdom that will not serve thee shall perish; yea, those nations will be utterly wasted.
13. The glory of Lebanon shall come to you, the fir-tree, the pine, and the box-tree together, to beautify the place of my sanctuary; and I will make the place of my feet glorious.
14. And the sons of them that afflicted thee shall come bending to you; and all they that despised thee shall bow themselves down at the soles of thy feet; and they shall call thee The city of the LORD, The Zion of the Holy One of Israel.
15. Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, so that no man passed through thee, I will make thee an eternal excellency, a joy of many generations.
16. you shall also suck the milk of the nations, and shalt suck the breast of kings; and you shall know that I, the LORD, am thy Saviour, and thy Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
17. For brass I will bring gold, and for iron I will bring silver, and for wood brass, and for stones iron. I will also make thy officers peace, and thine exactors righteousness.
18. Violence shall no more be heard in thy land, desolation nor destruction within thy borders; but you shall call thy walls Salvation, and thy gates Praise.
19. The sun will be no more thy light by day; neither for brightness shall the moon give light to you: but the LORD will be to you an everlasting light, and thy God thy glory.
20. Thy sun shall no more go down, neither shall thy moon withdraw itself; for the LORD will be thine everlasting light, and the days of thy mourning will be ended.
21. Thy people also will be all righteous; they shall inherit the land for ever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glorified.
22. The little one shall become a thousand, and the small one a strong nation; I, the LORD, will hasten it in its time.