1. Woe to the rebellious children, says the LORD, that take counsel, but not of me; and that make a league, but not of my Spirit, that they may add sin to sin,
2. that set out to go down into Egypt, and have not asked at my mouth; to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to take refuge in the shadow of Egypt!
3. Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the refuge in the shadow of Egypt your confusion.
4. For their princes are at Zoan, and their ambassadors are come to Hanes.
5. They shall all be ashamed because of a people that cannot profit them, that are not a help nor profit, but a shame, and also a reproach.
6. The burden of the beasts of the South. Through the land of trouble and anguish, from whence come the lioness and the lion, the viper and fiery flying serpent, they carry their riches upon the shoulders of young asses, and their treasures upon the humps of camels, to a people that shall not profit [them] .
7. For Egypt helpeth in vain, and to no purpose: therefore have I called her Rahab that sitteth still.
8. Now go, write it before them on a tablet, and inscribe it in a book, that it may be for the time to come for ever and ever.
9. For it is a rebellious people, lying children, children that will not hear the law of the LORD;
10. that say to the seers, See not; and to the prophets, Prophesy not unto us right things, speak unto us smooth things, prophesy deceits,
11. get you out of the way, turn aside out of the path, cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us.
12. Wherefore thus says the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and rely thereon;
13. therefore this iniquity will be to you as a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking comes suddenly in an instant.
14. And he shall break it as a potter's vessel is broken, breaking it in pieces without sparing; so that there shall not be found among the pieces of it a sherd wherewith to take fire from the hearth, or to dip up water out of the cistern.
15. For thus said the Lord the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, In returning and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence will be your strength. And ye would not:
16. but ye said, No, for we will flee upon horses; therefore shall ye flee: and, We will ride upon the swift; therefore shall they that pursue you be swift.
17. One thousand [shall flee] at the threat of one; at the threat of five shall ye flee: till ye be left as a beacon upon the top of a mountain, and as an ensign on a hill.
18. And therefore will the LORD wait, that he may be gracious unto you; and therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon you: for the LORD is a God of justice; blessed are all they that wait for him.
19. For the people shall dwell in Zion at Jerusalem; you shall weep no more; he will surely be gracious to you at the voice of thy cry; when he shall hear, he will answer thee.
20. And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet shall not thy teachers be hidden anymore, but thine eyes shall see thy teachers;
21. and thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This is the way, walk ye in it; when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to the left.
22. And ye shall defile the overlaying of thy graven images of silver, and the plating of thy molten images of gold: you shall cast them away as an unclean thing; you shall say unto it, Get thee hence.
23. And he will give the rain for thy seed, wherewith you shall sow the ground; and bread of the increase of the ground, and it will be fat and plenteous. In that day shall thy cattle feed in large pastures;
24. the oxen likewise and the young asses that till the ground shall eat savory provender, which has been winnowed with the shovel and with the fork.
25. And there will be upon every lofty mountain, and upon every high hill, brooks [and] streams of waters, in the day of the great slaughter, when the towers fall.
26. Moreover the light of the moon will be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be sevenfold, as the light of seven days, in the day that the LORD bindeth up the hurt of his people, and healeth the stroke of their wound.
27. Behold, the name of the LORD comes from far, burning with his anger, and in thick rising smoke: his lips are full of indignation, and his tongue is as a devouring fire;
28. and his breath is as an overflowing stream, that reacheth even unto the neck, to sift the nations with the sieve of destruction: and a bridle that causeth to err [will be] in the jaws of the peoples.
29. Ye shall have a song as in the night when a holy feast is kept; and gladness of heart, as when one goes with a pipe to come unto the mountain of the LORD, to the Rock of Israel.
30. And the LORD will cause his glorious voice to be heard, and will show the lighting down of his arm, with the indignation of [his] anger, and the flame of a devouring fire, with a blast, and tempest, and hailstones.
31. For through the voice of the LORD shall the Assyrian be dismayed; with his rod will he smite [him] .
32. And every stroke of the appointed staff, which the LORD shall lay upon him, will be with [the sound of] tabrets and harps; and in battles with the brandishing [of his arm] will he fight with them.
33. For a Topheth is prepared of old; yea, for the king it is made ready; he has made it deep and large; the pile of it is fire and much wood; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of brimstone, does kindle it.