1. The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
2. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth; for the LORD has spoken: I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me.
3. The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib; [but] Israel does not know, my people does not consider.
4. Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evil-doers, children that deal corruptly! they have forsaken the LORD, they have despised the Holy One of Israel, they are estranged [and gone] backward.
5. Why will ye be still stricken, that ye revolt more and more? the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.
6. From the sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundness in it; [but] wounds, and bruises, and fresh stripes: they have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with oil.
7. Your country is desolate; your cities are burned with fire; your land, strangers devour it in your presence, and it is desolate, as overthrown by strangers.
8. And the daughter of Zion is left as a booth in a vineyard, as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city.
9. Except the LORD of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom, we should have been like unto Gomorrah.
10. Hear the word of the LORD, ye rulers of Sodom; give ear unto the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah.
11. What unto me is the multitude of your sacrifices? says the LORD: I have had enough of the burnt-offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he-goats.
12. When ye come to appear before me, who has required this at your hand, to trample my courts?
13. Bring no more vain oblations; incense is an abomination unto me; new moon and sabbath, the calling of assemblies,-- I cannot away with iniquity and the solemn meeting. [
14. Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hateth; they are a trouble unto me; I am weary of bearing them.
15. And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you; yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear: your hands are full of blood.
16. Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil;
17. learn to do well; seek justice, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow.
18. Come now, and let us reason together, says the LORD: though your sins be as scarlet, they will be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they will be as wool.
19. If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land:
20. but if ye refuse and rebel, ye will be devoured with the sword; for the mouth of the LORD has spoken it.
21. How is the faithful city become a harlot! she that was full of justice! righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers.
22. Thy silver is become dross, thy wine mixed with water.
23. Thy princes are rebellious, and companions of thieves; every one loveth bribes, and followeth after rewards: they judge not the fatherless, neither does the cause of the widow come to them.
24. Therefore says the Lord, the LORD of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel, Ah, I will ease me of mine adversaries, and avenge me of mine enemies;
25. and I will turn my hand upon thee, and thoroughly purge away thy dross, and will take away all thy tin;
26. and I will restore thy judges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the beginning: afterward you shall be called The city of righteousness, a faithful town.
27. Zion will be redeemed with justice, and her converts with righteousness.
28. But the destruction of transgressors and sinners will be together, and they that forsake the LORD will be consumed.
29. For they will be ashamed of the oaks which ye have desired, and ye will be confounded for the gardens that ye have chosen.
30. For ye will be as an oak whose leaf fadeth, and as a garden that has no water.
31. And the strong will be as tow, and his work as a spark; and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench them.