1. The burden of Egypt. Behold, the LORD rideth upon a swift cloud, and comes unto Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall tremble at his presence; and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it.
2. And I will stir up the Egyptians against the Egyptians: and they shall fight every one against his brother, and every one against his neighbor; city against city, [and] kingdom against kingdom.
3. And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst of it; and I will destroy the counsel of it: and they shall seek unto the idols, and to the charmers, and to them that have familiar spirits, and to the wizards.
4. And I will give over the Egyptians into the hand of a cruel lord; and a fierce king shall rule over them, says the Lord, the LORD of hosts.
5. And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river will be wasted and become dry.
6. And the rivers shall become foul; the streams of Egypt will be diminished and dried up; the reeds and flags shall wither away.
7. The meadows by the Nile, by the brink of the Nile, and all the sown fields of the Nile, shall become dry, be driven away, and be no more.
8. And the fishers shall lament, and all they that cast angle into the Nile shall mourn, and they that spread nets upon the waters shall languish.
9. Moreover they that work in combed flax, and they that weave white cloth, will be confounded.
10. And the pillars [of Egypt] will be broken in pieces; all they that work for hire [will be] grieved in soul.
11. The princes of Zoan are utterly foolish; the counsel of the wisest counsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye unto Pharaoh, I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings?
12. Where then are thy wise men? and let them tell thee now; and let them know what the LORD of hosts has purposed concerning Egypt.
13. The princes of Zoan are become fools, the princes of Memphis are deceived; they have caused Egypt to go astray, that are the corner-stone of her tribes.
14. the LORD has mingled a spirit of perverseness in the midst of her; and they have caused Egypt to go astray in every work of it, as a drunken man staggereth in his vomit.
15. Neither shall there be for Egypt any work, which head or tail, palm-branch or rush, may do.
16. In that day shall the Egyptians be like unto women; and they shall tremble and fear because of the shaking of the hand of the LORD of hosts, which he shaketh over them.
17. And the land of Judah shall become a terror unto Egypt; every one to whom mention is made of it will be afraid, because of the purpose of the LORD of hosts, which he purposeth against it.
18. In that day there will be five cities in the land of Egypt that speak the language of Canaan, and swear to the LORD of hosts; one will be called The city of destruction.
19. In that day shall there be an altar to the LORD in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border of it to the LORD.
20. And it will be for a sign and for a witness unto the LORD of hosts in the land of Egypt; for they shall cry unto the LORD because of oppressors, and he will send them a saviour, and a defender, and he will deliver them.
21. And the LORD will be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the LORD in that day; yea, they shall worship with sacrifice and oblation, and shall vow a vow unto the LORD, and shall perform it.
22. And the LORD will smite Egypt, smiting and healing; and they shall return unto the LORD, and he will be entreated of them, and will heal them.
23. In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria; and the Egyptians shall worship with the Assyrians.
24. In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth;
25. for that the LORD of hosts has blessed them, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance.