1. Yet now hear, O Jacob my servant, and Israel, who I have chosen:
2. Thus says the LORD that made thee, and formed thee from the womb, who will help thee: Fear not, O Jacob my servant; and thou, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.
3. For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and streams upon the dry ground; I will pour my Spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring:
4. and they shall spring up among the grass, as willows by the watercourses.
5. One shall say, I am the LORD's; and another shall call [himself] by the name of Jacob; and another shall subscribe with his hand unto the LORD, and surname [himself] by the name of Israel.
6. Thus says the LORD, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the LORD of hosts: I am the first, and I am the last; and besides me there is no God.
7. And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order for me, since I established the ancient people? and the things that are coming, and that shall come to pass, let them declare.
8. Fear ye not, neither be afraid: have I not declared to you of old, and showed it? and ye are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? yea, there is no Rock; I know not any.
9. They that fashion a graven image are all of them vanity; and the things that they delight in shall not profit; and their own witnesses see not, nor know: that they may be put to shame.
10. Who has fashioned a god, or molten an image that is profitable for nothing?
11. Behold, all his fellows will be put to shame; and the workmen, they are of men: let them all be gathered together, let them stand up; they shall fear, they will be put to shame together.
12. The smith [makes] an axe, and worketh in the coals, and fashioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with his strong arm: yea, he is hungry, and his strength faileth; he drinketh no water, and is faint.
13. The carpenter stretcheth out a line; he marketh it out with a pencil; he shapeth it with planes, and he marketh it out with the compasses, and shapeth it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man, to dwell in a house.
14. He heweth him down cedars, and takes the holm-tree and the oak, and strengtheneth for himself one among the trees of the forest: he planteth a fir-tree, and the rain does nourish it.
15. Then shall it be for a man to burn; and he takes of it, and warmeth himself; yea, he kindleth it, and baketh bread: yea, he makes a god, and worshippeth it; he makes it a graven image, and falleth down thereto.
16. He burneth part of it in the fire; with part of it he eateth flesh; he roasteth roast, and is satisfied; yea, he warmeth himself, and says, Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire.
17. And the residue of it he makes a god, even his graven image; he falleth down unto it and worshippeth, and prayeth unto it, and says, Deliver me; for you are my god.
18. They know not, neither do they consider: for he has shut their eyes, that they cannot see; and their hearts, that they cannot understand.
19. And none calleth to mind, neither is there knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire; yea, also I have baked bread upon the coals of it; I have roasted flesh and eaten it: and shall I make the residue of it an abomination? shall I fall down to the stock of a tree?
20. He feedeth on ashes; a deceived heart has turned him aside; and he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand?
21. Remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel; for you are my servant: I have formed thee; you are my servant: O Israel, you shall not be forgotten of me.
22. I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and, as a cloud, thy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed thee.
23. Sing, O ye heavens, for the LORD has done it; shout, ye lower parts of the earth; break forth into singing, ye mountains, O forest, and every tree in it: for the LORD has redeemed Jacob, and will glorify himself in Israel.
24. Thus says the LORD, thy Redeemer, and he that formed thee from the womb: I am the LORD, that makes all things; that stretcheth forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth (who is with me?);
25. that frustrateth the signs of the liars, and makes diviners mad; that turneth wise men backward, and makes their knowledge foolish;
26. that confirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth the counsel of his messengers; that says of Jerusalem, She will be inhabited; and of the cities of Judah, They will be built, and I will raise up the waste places of it;
27. that says to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up thy rivers;
28. That says of Cyrus, [He is] my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure, even saying of Jerusalem, She will be built; and of the temple, Thy foundation will be laid.