1. Call now; is there any that will answer thee? And to which of the holy ones will you turn?
2. For vexation killeth the foolish man, And jealousy slayeth the silly one.
3. I have seen the foolish taking root: But suddenly I cursed his habitation.
4. His children are far from safety, And they are crushed in the gate, Neither is there any to deliver them:
5. Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, And takes it even out of the thorns; And the snare gapeth for their substance.
6. For affliction comes not forth from the dust, Neither does trouble spring out of the ground;
7. But man is born unto trouble, As the sparks fly upward.
8. But as for me, I would seek unto God, And unto God would I commit my cause;
9. Who doeth great things and unsearchable, Marvellous things without number:
10. Who gives rain upon the earth, And sendeth waters upon the fields;
11. So that he setteth up on high those that are low, And those that mourn are exalted to safety.
12. He frustrateth the devices of the crafty, So that their hands cannot perform their enterprise.
13. He takes the wise in their own craftiness; And the counsel of the cunning is carried headlong.
14. They meet with darkness in the day-time, And grope at noonday as in the night.
15. But he saveth from the sword of their mouth, Even the needy from the hand of the mighty.
16. So the poor has hope, And iniquity stoppeth her mouth.
17. Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth: Therefore despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty.
18. For he makes sore, and bindeth up; He woundeth, and his hands make whole.
19. He will deliver thee in six troubles; Yea, in seven there shall no evil touch thee.
20. In famine he will redeem thee from death; And in war from the power of the sword.
21. you shall be hid from the scourge of the tongue; Neither shalt thou be afraid of destruction when it comes.
22. At destruction and dearth you shall laugh; Neither shalt thou be afraid of the beasts of the earth.
23. For you shall be in league with the stones of the field; And the beasts of the field will be at peace with thee.
24. And you shall know that thy tent is in peace; And you shall visit thy fold, and shalt miss nothing.
25. you shall know also that thy seed will be great, And thine offspring as the grass of the earth.
26. you shall come to thy grave in a full age, Like as a shock of grain comes in in its season.
27. Lo this, we have searched it, so it is; Hear it, and know thou it for thy good.