1. And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD; and the LORD delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
2. And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
3. And the angel of the LORD appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, you are barren, and bearest not; but you shall conceive, and bear a son.
4. Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
5. for, lo, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come upon his head; for the child will be a Nazirite unto God from the womb: and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
6. Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of the angel of God, very terrible; and I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name:
7. but he said unto me, Behold, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing; for the child will be a Nazirite unto God from the womb to the day of his death.
8. Then Manoah entreated the LORD, and said, Oh, Lord, I pray thee, let the man of God whom thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that will be born.
9. And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field: but Manoah her husband was not with her.
10. And the woman made haste, and ran, and told her husband, and said to him, Behold, the man has appeared unto me, that came unto me the [other] day.
11. And Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said to him, Art thou the man that spakest unto the woman? And he said, I am.
12. And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass: what will be the ordering of the child, and [how] shall we do to him?
13. And the angel of the LORD said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her beware.
14. She may not eat of anything that comes of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; all that I commanded her let her observe.
15. And Manoah said unto the angel of the LORD, I pray thee, let us detain thee, that we may make ready a kid for thee.
16. And the angel of the LORD said unto Manoah, Though thou detain me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou wilt make ready a burnt-offering, thou must offer it unto the LORD. For Manoah knew not that he was the angel of the LORD.
17. And Manoah said unto the angel of the LORD, What is thy name, that, when thy words come to pass, we may do thee honor?
18. And the angel of the LORD said to him, Wherefore askest thou after my name, seeing it is wonderful?
19. So Manoah took the kid with the meal-offering, and offered it upon the rock unto the LORD: and [the angel] did wondrously, and Manoah and his wife looked on.
20. For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of the LORD ascended in the flame of the altar: and Manoah and his wife looked on; and they fell on their faces to the ground.
21. But the angel of the LORD did no more appear to Manoah or to his wife. Then Manoah knew that he was the angel of the LORD.
22. And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
23. But his wife said to him, If the LORD were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a meal-offering at our hand, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would at this time have told such things as these.
24. And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson: and the child grew, and the LORD blessed him.
25. And the Spirit of the LORD began to move him in Mahaneh-dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.