1. I am the man that has seen affliction by the rod of his wrath.
2. He has led me and caused me to walk in darkness, and not in light.
3. Surely against me he turneth his hand again and again all the day.
4. My flesh and my skin has he made old; he has broken my bones.
5. He has builded against me, and compassed me with gall and travail.
6. He has made me to dwell in dark places, as those that have been long dead.
7. He has walled me about, that I cannot go forth; he has made my chain heavy.
8. Yea, when I cry, and call for help, he shutteth out my prayer.
9. He has walled up my ways with hewn stone; he has made my paths crooked.
10. He is unto me as a bear lying in wait, as a lion in secret places.
11. He has turned aside my ways, and pulled me in pieces; he has made me desolate.
12. He has bent his bow, and set me as a mark for the arrow.
13. He has caused the shafts of his quiver to enter into my reins.
14. I am become a derision to all my people, and their song all the day.
15. He has filled me with bitterness, he has sated me with wormwood.
16. He has also broken my teeth with gravel stones; he has covered me with ashes.
17. And you have removed my soul far off from peace; I forgat prosperity.
18. And I said, My strength is perished, and mine expectation from the LORD.
19. Remember mine affliction and my misery, the wormwood and the gall.
20. My soul has them still in remembrance, and is bowed down within me.
21. This I recall to my mind; therefore have I hope.
22. [ It is of] the LORD's lovingkindnesses that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not.
23. They are new every morning; great is thy faithfulness.
24. the LORD is my portion, says my soul; therefore will I hope in him.
25. the LORD is good to them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him.
26. It is good that a man should hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the LORD.
27. It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth.
28. Let him sit alone and keep silence, because he has laid it upon him.
29. Let him put his mouth in the dust, if so be there may be hope.
30. Let him give his cheek to him that smiteth him; let him be filled full with reproach.
31. For the Lord will not cast off for ever.
32. For though he cause grief, yet will he have compassion according to the multitude of his lovingkindnesses.
33. For he does not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men.
34. To crush under foot all the prisoners of the earth,
35. To turn aside the right of a man before the face of the Most High,
36. To subvert a man in his cause, the Lord approveth not.
37. Who is he that says, and it comes to pass, when the Lord commandeth it not?
38. Out of the mouth of the Most High comes there not evil and good?
39. Wherefore does a living man complain, a man for the punishment of his sins?
40. Let us search and try our ways, and turn again to the LORD.
41. Let us lift up our heart with our hands unto God in the heavens.
42. We have transgressed and have rebelled; you have not pardoned.
43. you have covered with anger and pursued us; you have slain, you have not pitied.
44. you have covered thyself with a cloud, so that no prayer can pass through.
45. you have made us an off-scouring and refuse in the midst of the peoples.
46. All our enemies have opened their mouth wide against us.
47. Fear and the pit are come upon us, devastation and destruction.
48. Mine eye runneth down with streams of water, for the destruction of the daughter of my people.
49. Mine eye poureth down, and ceaseth not, without any intermission,
50. Till the LORD look down, and behold from heaven.
51. Mine eye affecteth my soul, because of all the daughters of my city.
52. They have chased me sore like a bird, they that are mine enemies without cause.
53. They have cut off my life in the dungeon, and have cast a stone upon me.
54. Waters flowed over my head; I said, I am cut off.
55. I called upon thy name, O the LORD, out of the lowest dungeon.
56. Thou heardest my voice; hide not thine ear at my breathing, at my cry.
57. Thou drewest near in the day that I called upon thee; thou saidst, Fear not.
58. O Lord, you have pleaded the causes of my soul; you have redeemed my life.
59. O the LORD, you have seen my wrong; judge thou my cause.
60. you have seen all their vengeance and all their devices against me.
61. you have heard their reproach, O the LORD, and all their devices against me,
62. The lips of those that rose up against me, and their device against me all the day.
63. Behold thou their sitting down, and their rising up; I am their song.
64. Thou wilt render to them a recompense, O the LORD, according to the work of their hands.
65. Thou wilt give them hardness of heart, thy curse to them.
66. Thou wilt pursue them in anger, and destroy them from under the heavens of the LORD.