1. The burden of the word of the LORD to Israel by Malachi.
2. I have loved you, says the LORD. Yet ye say, in which hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? says the LORD: yet I loved Jacob;
3. but Esau I hated, and made his mountains a desolation, and [gave] his heritage to the jackals of the wilderness.
4. Whereas Edom says, We are beaten down, but we will return and build the waste places; thus says the LORD of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down; and men shall call them The border of wickedness, and The people against whom the LORD has indignation for ever.
5. And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, the LORD be magnified beyond the border of Israel.
6. A son honoreth his father, and a servant his master: if then I am a father, where is mine honor? and if I am a master, where is my fear? says the LORD of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, in which have we despised thy name?
7. Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar. And ye say, in which have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of the LORD is contemptible.
8. And when ye offer the blind for sacrifice, it is no evil! and when ye offer the lame and sick, it is no evil! Present it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee? or will he accept thy person? says the LORD of hosts.
9. And now, I pray you, entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious unto us: this has been by your means: will he accept any of your persons? says the LORD of hosts.
10. Oh that there were one among you that would shut the doors, that ye might not kindle [fire on] mine altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, says the LORD of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand.
11. For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name [will be] great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense [will be] offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name [will be] great among the Gentiles, says the LORD of hosts.
12. But ye profane it, in that ye say, The table of the LORD is polluted, and the fruit of it, even its food, is contemptible.
13. Ye say also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and ye have snuffed at it, says the LORD of hosts; and ye have brought that which was taken by violence, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye bring the offering: should I accept this at your hand? says the LORD.
14. But cursed be the deceiver, who has in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto the Lord a blemished thing; for I am a great King, says the LORD of hosts, and my name is terrible among the Gentiles.