1. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
2. Abraham fathered Isaac; and Isaac fathered Jacob; and Jacob fathered Judah and his brethren;
3. and Judah fathered Perez and Zerah of Tamar; and Perez fathered Hezron; and Hezron fathered Ram;
4. and Ram fathered Amminadab; and Amminadab fathered Nahshon; and Nahshon fathered Salmon;
5. and Salmon fathered Boaz of Rahab; and Boaz fathered Obed of Ruth; and Obed fathered Jesse;
6. and Jesse fathered David the king. And David fathered Solomon of her [that had been the wife] of Uriah;
7. and Solomon fathered Rehoboam; and Rehoboam fathered Abijah; and Abijah fathered Asa;
8. and Asa fathered Jehoshaphat; and Jehoshaphat fathered Joram; and Joram fathered Uzziah;
9. and Uzziah fathered Jotham; and Jotham fathered Ahaz; and Ahaz fathered Hezekiah;
10. and Hezekiah fathered Manasseh; and Manasseh fathered Amon; and Amon fathered Josiah;
11. and Josiah fathered Jechoniah and his brethren, at the time of the carrying away to Babylon.
12. And after the carrying away to Babylon, Jechoniah fathered Shealtiel; and Shealtiel fathered Zerubbabel;
13. and Zerubbabel fathered Abiud; and Abiud fathered Eliakim; and Eliakim fathered Azor;
14. and Azor fathered Sadoc; and Sadoc fathered Achim; and Achim fathered Eliud;
15. and Eliud fathered Eleazar; and Eleazar fathered Matthan; and Matthan fathered Jacob;
16. and Jacob fathered Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
17. So all the generations from Abraham unto David are fourteen generations; and from David unto the carrying away to Babylon fourteen generations; and from the carrying away to Babylon unto the Christ fourteen generations.
18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found with child of the Holy Spirit.
19. And Joseph her husband, being a righteous man, and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily.
20. But when he thought on these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take to you Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit.
21. And she shall bring forth a son; and you shall call his name JESUS; for it is he that shall save his people from their sins.
22. Now all this is come to pass, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying,
23. Behold, the virgin will be with child, and shall bring forth a son, And they shall call his name Immanuel; which is, being interpreted, God with us.
24. And Joseph arose from his sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife;
25. and knew her not till she had brought forth a son: and he called his name JESUS.