1. Hear ye now what the LORD says: Arise, contend thou before the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice.
2. Hear, O ye mountains, the LORD's controversy, and ye enduring foundations of the earth; for the LORD has a controversy with his people, and he will contend with Israel.
3. O my people, what have I done to you? and in which have I wearied thee? testify against me.
4. For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of bondage; and I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
5. O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him; [remember] from Shittim unto Gilgal, that ye may know the righteous acts of the LORD.
6. Wherewith shall I come before the LORD, and bow myself before the high God? shall I come before him with burnt-offerings, with calves a year old?
7. will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, [or] with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my first-born for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?
8. He has showed thee, O man, what is good; and what does the LORD require of thee, but to do justly, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with thy God?
9. The voice of the LORD crieth unto the city, and [the man of] wisdom will see thy name: hear ye the rod, and who has appointed it.
10. Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and a scant measure that is abominable?
11. Shall I be pure with wicked balances, and with a bag of deceitful weights?
12. For the rich men of it are full of violence, and the inhabitants of it have spoken lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.
13. Therefore I also have smitten thee with a grievous wound; I have made thee desolate because of thy sins.
14. you shall eat, but not be satisfied; and thy humiliation will be in the midst of thee: and you shall put away, but shalt not save; and that which thou savest will I give up to the sword.
15. you shall sow, but shalt not reap; you shall tread the olives, but shalt not anoint thee with oil; and the vintage, but shalt not drink the wine.
16. For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab, and ye walk in their counsels; that I may make thee a desolation, and the inhabitants of it a hissing: and ye shall bear the reproach of my people.