1. In thee, O the LORD, do I take refuge: Let me never be put to shame.
2. Deliver me in thy righteousness, and rescue me: Bow down thine ear unto me, and save me.
3. Be thou to me a rock of habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: you have given commandment to save me; For you are my rock and my fortress.
4. Rescue me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, Out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
5. For you are my hope, O Lord the LORD: [you are] my trust from my youth.
6. By thee have I been holden up from the womb; you are he that took me out of my mother's bowels: My praise will be continually of thee.
7. I am as a wonder unto many; But you are my strong refuge.
8. My mouth will be filled with thy praise, And with thy honor all the day.
9. Cast me not off in the time of old age; Forsake me not when my strength faileth.
10. For mine enemies speak concerning me; And they that watch for my soul take counsel together,
11. Saying, God has forsaken him: Pursue and take him; For there is none to deliver.
12. O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste to help me.
13. Let them be put to shame [and] consumed that are adversaries to my soul; Let them be covered with reproach and dishonor that seek my hurt.
14. But I will hope continually, And will praise thee yet more and more.
15. My mouth shall tell of thy righteousness, [And] of thy salvation all the day; For I know not the numbers [of it] .
16. I will come with the mighty acts of the Lord the LORD: I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only.
17. O God, you have taught me from my youth; And hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works.
18. Yea, even when I am old and grayheaded, O God, forsake me not, Until I have declared thy strength unto [the next] generation, Thy might to every one that is to come.
19. Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high; Thou who hast done great things, O God, who is like to you?
20. Thou, who hast showed us many and sore troubles, Wilt quicken us again, And wilt bring us up again from the depths of the earth.
21. Increase thou my greatness, And turn again and comfort me.
22. I will also praise thee with the psaltery, [Even] thy truth, O my God: to you will I sing praises with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel.
23. My lips shall shout for joy when I sing praises to you; And my soul, which you have redeemed.
24. My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long; For they are put to shame, for they are confounded, that seek my hurt.