1. Oh give thanks unto the LORD; For he is good; For his lovingkindness [endureth] for ever.
2. Let Israel now say, That his lovingkindness [endureth] for ever.
3. Let the house of Aaron now say, That his lovingkindness [endureth] for ever.
4. Let them now that fear the LORD say, That his lovingkindness [endureth] for ever.
5. Out of my distress I called upon the LORD: the LORD answered me [and set me] in a large place.
6. the LORD is on my side; I will not fear: What can man do unto me?
7. the LORD is on my side among them that help me: Therefore shall I see [my desire] upon them that hate me.
8. It is better to take refuge in the LORD Than to put confidence in man.
9. It is better to take refuge in the LORD Than to put confidence in princes.
10. All nations compassed me about: In the name of the LORD I will cut them off.
11. They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: In the name of the LORD I will cut them off.
12. They compassed me about like bees; They are quenched as the fire of thorns: In the name of the LORD I will cut them off.
13. Thou didst thrust sore at me that I might fall; But the LORD helped me.
14. the LORD is my strength and song; And he is become my salvation.
15. The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous: The right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.
16. The right hand of the LORD is exalted: The right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.
17. I shall not die, but live, And declare the works of the LORD.
18. the LORD has chastened me sore; But he has not given me over unto death.
19. Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will enter into them, I will give thanks unto the LORD.
20. This is the gate of the LORD; The righteous shall enter into it.
21. I will give thanks to you; for you have answered me, And art become my salvation.
22. The stone which the builders rejected Is become the head of the corner.
23. This is the LORD's doing; It is marvellous in our eyes.
24. This is the day which the LORD has made; We will rejoice and be glad in it.
25. Save now, we beseech thee, O the LORD: O the LORD, we beseech thee, send now prosperity.
26. Blessed be he that comes in the name of the LORD: We have blessed you out of the house of the LORD.
27. the LORD is God, and he has given us light: Bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar.
28. you are my God, and I will give thanks to you: you are my God, I will exalt thee.
29. Oh give thanks unto the LORD; For he is good; For his lovingkindness [endureth] for ever.