1. [For the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David]. In thee, O the LORD, do I take refuge; Let me never be put to shame: Deliver me in thy righteousness.
2. Bow down thine ear unto me; Deliver me speedily: Be thou to me a strong rock, A house of defence to save me.
3. For you are my rock and my fortress; Therefore for thy name's sake lead me and guide me.
4. Pluck me out of the net that they have laid privily for me; For you are my stronghold.
5. Into thy hand I commend my spirit: you have redeemed me, O the LORD, thou God of truth.
6. I hate them that regard lying vanities; But I trust in the LORD.
7. I will be glad and rejoice in thy lovingkindness; For you have seen my affliction: you have known my soul in adversities;
8. And you have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy; you have set my feet in a large place.
9. Have mercy upon me, O the LORD, for I am in distress: Mine eye wasteth away with grief, [yea], my soul and my body.
10. For my life is spent with sorrow, And my years with sighing: My strength faileth because of mine iniquity, And my bones are wasted away.
11. Because of all mine adversaries I am become a reproach, Yea, unto my neighbors exceedingly, And a fear to mine acquaintance: They that did see me without fled from me.
12. I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.
13. For I have heard the defaming of many, Terror on every side: While they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my life.
14. But I trusted in thee, O the LORD: I said, you are my God.
15. My times are in thy hand: Deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me.
16. Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: Save me in thy lovingkindness.
17. Let me not be put to shame, O the LORD; For I have called upon thee: Let the wicked be put to shame, let them be silent in Sheol.
18. Let the lying lips be dumb, Which speak against the righteous insolently, With pride and contempt.
19. Oh how great is thy goodness, Which you have laid up for them that fear thee, Which you have wrought for them that take refuge in thee, Before the sons of men!
20. In the covert of thy presence will you hide them from the plottings of man: Thou wilt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.
21. Blessed be the LORD; For he has showed me his marvellous lovingkindness in a strong city.
22. As for me, I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes: Nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications When I cried to you.
23. Oh love the LORD, all ye his saints: the LORD preserveth the faithful, And plentifully rewardeth him that dealeth proudly.
24. Be strong, and let your heart take courage, All ye that hope in the LORD.