1. [For the Chief Musician; set to Muth-labben. A Psalm of David]. I will give thanks unto the LORD with my whole heart; I will show forth all thy marvellous works.
2. I will be glad and exult in thee; I will sing praise to thy name, O thou Most High.
3. When mine enemies turn back, They stumble and perish at thy presence.
4. For you have maintained my right and my cause; Thou sittest in the throne judging righteously.
5. you have rebuked the nations, you have destroyed the wicked; you have blotted out their name for ever and ever.
6. The enemy are come to an end, they are desolate for ever; And the cities which you have overthrown, The very remembrance of them is perished. [
7. But the LORD sitteth [as king] for ever: He has prepared his throne for judgment;
8. And he will judge the world in righteousness, He will minister judgment to the peoples in uprightness.
9. the LORD also will be a high tower for the oppressed, A high tower in times of trouble;
10. And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee; For thou, the LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.
11. Sing praises to the LORD, who dwelleth in Zion: Declare among the people his doings.
12. For he that makes inquisition for blood remembereth them; He forgetteth not the cry of the poor.
13. Have mercy upon me, O the LORD; Behold my affliction [which I suffer] of them that hate me, Thou that liftest me up from the gates of death;
14. That I may show forth all thy praise. In the gates of the daughter of Zion I will rejoice in thy salvation.
15. The nations are sunk down in the pit that they made: In the net which they hid is their own foot taken.
16. the LORD has made himself known, he has executed judgment: The wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. {{Higgaion. Selah
17. The wicked will be turned back unto Sheol, Even all the nations that forget God.
18. For the needy shall not alway be forgotten, Nor the expectation of the poor perish for ever.
19. Arise, O the LORD; Let not man prevail: Let the nations be judged in thy sight.
20. Put them in fear, O the LORD: Let the nations know themselves to be but men. {{Selah