1. Gather yourselves together, yea, gather together, O nation that has no shame;
2. before the decree bring forth, [before] the day pass as the chaff, before the fierce anger of the LORD come upon you, before the day of the LORD's anger come upon you.
3. Seek ye the LORD, all ye meek of the earth, that have kept his ordinances; seek righteousness, seek meekness: it may be ye will be hid in the day of the LORD's anger.
4. For Gaza will be forsaken, and Ashkelon a desolation; they shall drive out Ashdod at noonday, and Ekron will be rooted up.
5. Woe unto the inhabitants of the sea-coast, the nation of the Cherethites! The word of the LORD is against you, O Canaan, the land of the Philistines; I will destroy thee, that there will be no inhabitant.
6. And the sea-coast will be pastures, with cottages for shepherds and folds for flocks.
7. And the coast will be for the remnant of the house of Judah; they shall feed [their flocks] thereupon; in the houses of Ashkelon shall they lie down in the evening; for the LORD their God will visit them, and bring back their captivity.
8. I have heard the reproach of Moab, and the revilings of the children of Ammon, wherewith they have reproached my people, and magnified themselves against their border.
9. Therefore as I live, says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, Surely Moab will be as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as Gomorrah, a possession of nettles, and saltpits, and a perpetual desolation: the residue of my people shall make a prey of them, and the remnant of my nation shall inherit them.
10. This shall they have for their pride, because they have reproached and magnified themselves against the people of the LORD of hosts.
11. the LORD will be terrible to them; for he will famish all the gods of the earth; and men shall worship him, every one from his place, even all the isles of the nations.
12. Ye Ethiopians also, ye will be slain by my sword.
13. And he will stretch out his hand against the north, and destroy Assyria, and will make Nineveh a desolation, and dry like the wilderness.
14. And herds shall lie down in the midst of her, all the beasts of the nations: both the pelican and the porcupine shall lodge in the capitals of it; [their] voice shall sing in the windows; desolation will be in the thresholds: for he has laid bare the cedar-work.
15. This is the joyous city that dwelt carelessly, that said in her heart, I am, and there is none besides me: how is she become a desolation, a place for beasts to lie down in! every one that passeth by her shall hiss, and wag his hand.