1. Woe to her that is rebellious and polluted! to the oppressing city!
2. She obeyed not the voice; she received not correction; she trusted not in the LORD; she drew not near to her God.
3. Her princes in the midst of her are roaring lions; her judges are evening wolves; they leave nothing till the morrow.
4. Her prophets are light and treacherous persons; her priests have profaned the sanctuary, they have done violence to the law.
5. the LORD in the midst of her is righteous; he will not do iniquity; every morning does he bring his justice to light, he faileth not; but the unjust knoweth no shame.
6. I have cut off nations; their battlements are desolate; I have made their streets waste, so that none passeth by; their cities are destroyed, so that there is no man, so that there is no inhabitant.
7. I said, Only fear thou me; receive correction; so her dwelling shall not be cut off, [according to] all that I have appointed concerning her: but they rose early and corrupted all their doings.
8. Therefore wait ye for me, says the LORD, until the day that I rise up to the prey; for my determination is to gather the nations, that I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour upon them mine indignation, even all my fierce anger; for all the earth will be devoured with the fire of my jealousy.
9. For then will I turn to the peoples of a pure language, that they may all call upon the name of the LORD, to serve him with one consent.
10. From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia my suppliants, even the daughter of my dispersed, shall bring mine offering.
11. In that day shalt thou not be put to shame for all thy doings, in which you have transgressed against me; for then I will take away out of the midst of thee thy proudly exulting ones, and you shall no more be haughty in my holy mountain.
12. But I will leave in the midst of thee an afflicted and poor people, and they shall take refuge in the name of the LORD.
13. The remnant of Israel shall not do iniquity, nor speak lies; neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth; for they shall feed and lie down, and none shall make them afraid.
14. Sing, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel; be glad and rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.
15. the LORD has taken away thy judgments, he has cast out thine enemy: the King of Israel, even the LORD, is in the midst of thee; you shall not fear evil any more.
16. In that day it will be said to Jerusalem, Fear thou not; O Zion, let not thy hands be slack.
17. the LORD thy God is in the midst of thee, a mighty one who will save; he will rejoice over thee with joy; he will rest in his love; he will joy over thee with singing.
18. I will gather them that sorrow for the solemn assembly, who were of thee; [to whom] the burden upon her was a reproach.
19. Behold, at that time I will deal with all them that afflict thee; and I will save that which is lame, and gather that which was driven away; and I will make them a praise and a name, whose shame has been in all the earth.
20. At that time will I bring you in, and at that time will I gather you; for I will make you a name and a praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I bring back your captivity before your eyes, says the LORD.